Project Gutenberg's Clarissa, Volume 6 (of 9), by Samuel Richardson

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net


Title: Clarissa, Volume 6 (of 9)
       The History Of A Young Lady

Author: Samuel Richardson

Release Date: February 28, 2004 [EBook #11364]

Language: English


*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CLARISSA, VOLUME 6 (OF 9) ***




Produced by Produced by Julie C. Sparks.




CLARISSA HARLOWE

or the

HISTORY OF A YOUNG LADY

Nine Volumes
Volume VI.



CONTENTS OF VOLUME VI


LETTER I. II.  Lovelace to Belford.--
His conditional promise to Tomlinson in the lady's favour.  His pleas
and arguments on their present situation, and on his darling and
hitherto-baffled views.  His whimsical contest with his conscience.  His
latest adieu to it.  His strange levity, which he calls gravity, on the
death of Belford's uncle.

LETTER III. IV.  From the same.--
She favours him with a meeting in the garden.  Her composure.  Her
conversation great and noble.  But will not determine any thing in his
favour.  It is however evident, he says, that she has still some
tenderness for him.  His reasons.  An affecting scene between them.  Her
ingenuousness and openness of heart.  She resolves to go to church; but
will not suffer him to accompany her thither.  His whimsical debate with
the God of Love, whom he introduced as pleading for the lady.

LETTER V. VI. VII.  From the same.--
He has got the wished-for letter from Miss Howe.--Informs him of the
manner of obtaining it.--His remarks upon it.  Observations on female
friendships.  Comparison between Clarissa and Miss Howe.

LETTER VIII.  From the same.--
Another conversation with the lady.  His plausible arguments to re-obtain
her favour ineffectual.  His pride piqued.  His revenge incited.  New
arguments in favour of his wicked prospects.  His notice that a license
is actually obtained.

LETTER IX. X.  From the same.--
Copy of the license; with his observations upon it.  His scheme for
annual marriages.  He is preparing with Lady Betty and Miss Montague to
wait upon Clarissa.  Who these pretended ladies are.  How dressed.  They
give themselves airs of quality.  Humourously instructs them how to act
up their assumed characters.

LETTER XI. XII.  Lovelace to Belford.--
Once more is the charmer of his soul in her old lodgings.  Brief account
of the horrid imposture.  Steels his heart by revengeful recollections.
Her agonizing apprehensions.  Temporary distraction.  Is ready to fall
into fits.  But all her distress, all her prayers, her innocence, her
virtue, cannot save her from the most villanous outrage.

LETTER XIII.  Belford to Lovelace.--
Vehemently inveighs against him.  Grieves for the lady.  Is now convinced
that there must be a world after this to do justice to injured merit.
Beseeches him, if he be a man, and not a devil, to do all the poor
justice now in his power.

LETTER XIV.  Lovelace to Belford.--
Regrets that he ever attempted her.  Aims at extenuation.  Does he not
see that he has journeyed on to this stage, with one determined point in
view from the first?  She is at present stupified, he says.

LETTER XV.  From the same.--
The lady's affecting behaviour in her delirium.  He owns that art has
been used to her.  Begins to feel remorse.

LETTER XVI.  From the same.--
The lady writes upon scraps of paper, which she tears, and throws under
the table.  Copies of ten of these rambling papers; and of a letter to
him most affectingly incoherent.  He attempts farther to extenuate his
villany.  Tries to resume his usual levity; and forms a scheme to decoy
the people at Hampstead to the infamous woman's in town.  The lady seems
to be recovering.

LETTER XVII.  From the same.--
She attempts to get away in his absence.  Is prevented by the odious
Sinclair.  He exults in the hope of looking her into confusion when he
sees her.  Is told by Dorcas that she is coming into the dining-room to
find him out.

LETTER XVIII.  From the same.--
A high scene of her exalted, and of his depressed, behaviour.  Offers to
make her amends by matrimony.  She treats his offer with contempt.
Afraid Belford plays him false.

LETTER XIX.  From the same.--
Wishes he had never seen her.  With all the women he had known till now,
it was once subdued, and always subdued.  His miserable dejection.  His
remorse.  She attempts to escape.  A mob raised.  His quick invention to
pacify it.  Out of conceit with himself and his contrivances.

LETTER XX. XXI.  Lovelace to Belford.--
Lord M. very ill.  His presence necessary at M. Hall.  Puts Dorcas upon
ingratiating herself with her lady.--He re-urges marriage to her.  She
absolutely, from the most noble motives, rejects him.

LETTER XXII.  From the same.--
Reflects upon himself.  It costs, he says, more pain to be wicked than to
be good.  The lady's solemn expostulation with him.  Extols her greatness
of soul.  Dorcas coming into favour with her.  He is alarmed by another
attempt of the lady to get off.  She is in agonies at being prevented.
He tried to intimidate her.  Dorcas pleads for her.  On the point of
drawing his sword against himself.  The occasion.

LETTER XXIII.  From the same.--
Cannot yet persuade himself but the lady will be his.  Reasons for his
opinion.  Opens his heart to Belford, as to his intentions by her.
Mortified that she refuses his honest vows.  Her violation but notional.
Her triumph greater than her sufferings.  Her will unviolated.  He is a
better man, he says, than most rakes; and why.

LETTER XXIV. XXV.  From the same.--
The lady gives a promissory note to Dorcas, to induce her to further her
escape.--A fair trial of skill now, he says.  A conversation between the
vile Dorcas and her lady: in which she engages her lady's pity.  The
bonds of wickedness stronger than the ties of virtue.  Observations on
that subject.

LETTER XXVI. XXVII. XXVIII.  From the same.--
A new contrivance to advantage of the lady's intended escape.--A letter
from Tomlinson.  Intent of it.--He goes out to give opportunity for the
lady to attempt an escape.  His designs frustrated.

LETTER XXIX.  From the same.--
An interesting conversation between the lady and him.  No concession in
his favour.  By his soul, he swears, this dear girl gives the lie to all
their rakish maxims.  He has laid all the sex under obligation to him;
and why.

LETTER XXX.  Lovelace to Belford.--
Lord M. in extreme danger.  The family desire his presence.  He
intercepts a severe letter from Miss Howe to her friend.  Copy of it.

LETTER XXXI.  From the same.--
The lady, suspecting Dorcas, tries to prevail upon him to give her her
liberty.  She disclaims vengeance, and affectingly tells him all her
future views.  Denied, she once more attempts an escape.  Prevented, and
terrified with apprehensions of instant dishonour, she is obliged to make
some concession.

LETTER XXXII.  From the same.--
Accuses her of explaining away her concession.  Made desperate, he seeks
occasion to quarrel with her.  She exerts a spirit which overawes him.
He is ridiculed by the infamous copartnership.  Calls to Belford to help
a gay heart to a little of his dismal, on the expected death of Lord M.

LETTER XXXIII.  From the same.--
Another message from M. Hall, to engage him to go down the next morning.

LETTER XXXIV. XXXV.  From the same.--
The women's instigations.  His farther schemes against the lady.  What,
he asks, is the injury which a church-rite will not at any time repair?

LETTER XXXVI.  From the same.--
Himself, the mother, her nymphs, all assembled with intent to execute his
detestable purposes.  Her glorious behaviour on the occasion.  He
execrates, detests, despises himself; and admires her more than ever.
Obliged to set out early that morning for M. Hall, he will press her with
letters to meet him next Thursday, her uncle's birthday, at the altar.

LETTER XXXVII. XXXVIII. XXXIX.  Lovelace to Clarissa, from M. Hall.--
Urging her accordingly, (the license in her hands,) by the most engaging
pleas and arguments.

LETTER XL.  Lovelace to Belford.--
Begs he will wait on the lady, and induce her to write but four words to
him, signifying the church and the day.  Is now resolved on wedlock.
Curses his plots and contrivances; which all end, he says, in one grand
plot upon himself.

LETTER XLI.  Belford to Lovelace.  In answer.--
Refuses to undertake for him, unless he can be sure of his honour.  Why
he doubts it.

LETTER XLII.  Lovelace.  In reply.--
Curses him for scrupulousness.  Is in earnest to marry.  After one more
letter of entreaty to her, if she keep sullen silence, she must take the
consequence.

LETTER XLIII.  Lovelace to Clarissa.--
Once more earnestly entreats her to meet him at the altar.  Not to be
forbidden coming, he will take for leave to come.

LETTER XLIV. Lovelace to Patrick M'Donald.--
Ordering him to visit the lady, and instructing him what to say, and how
to behave to her.

LETTER XLV.  To the same, as Captain Tomlinson.--
Calculated to be shown to the lady, as in confidence.

LETTER XLVI.  M'Donald to Lovelace.--
Goes to attend the lady according to direction.  Finds the house in an
uproar; and the lady escaped.

LETTER XLVII.  Mowbray to Lovelace.--
With the same news.

LETTER XLVIII.  Belford to Lovelace.--
Ample particulars of the lady's escape.  Makes serious reflections on the
distress she must be in; and on his (Lovelace's) ungrateful usage of her.
What he takes the sum of religion.

LETTER XLIX.  Lovelace to Belford.--
Runs into affected levity and ridicule, yet at last owns all his gayety
but counterfeit.  Regrets his baseness to the lady.  Inveighs against the
women for their instigations.  Will still marry her, if she can be found
out.  One misfortune seldom comes alone; Lord M. is recovering.  He had
bespoken mourning for him.

LETTER L.  Clarissa to Miss Howe.--
Writes with incoherence, to inquire after her health.  Lets her know
whither to direct to her.  But forgets, in her rambling, her private
address.  By which means her letter falls into the hands of Miss Howe's
mother.

LETTER LI.  Mrs. Howe to Clarissa.--
Reproaches her for making all her friends unhappy.  Forbids her to write
any more to her daughter.

LETTER LII.  Clarissa's meek reply.

LETTER LIII.  Clarissa to Hannah Burton.

LETTER LIV.  Hannah Burton.  In answer.

LETTER LV.  Clarissa to Miss Norton.--
Excuses her long silence.  Asks her a question, with a view to detect
Lovelace.  Hints at his ungrateful villany.  Self-recrimination.

LETTER LVI.  Mrs. Norton to Clarissa.--
Answers her question.  Inveighs against Lovelace.  Hopes she has escaped
with her honour.  Consoles her by a brief relation of her own case, and
from motives truly pious.

LETTER LVII.  Clarissa to Lady Betty Lawrance.--
Requests an answer to three questions, with a view farther to detect
Lovelace.

LETTER LVIII.  Lady Betty to Clarissa.--
Answers her questions.  In the kindest manner offers to mediate between
her nephew and her.

LETTER LIX. LX.  Clarissa to Mrs. Hodges,
her uncle Harlowe's housekeeper; with a view of still farther detecting
Lovelace. --- Mrs. Hodges's answer.

LETTER LXI.  Clarissa to Lady Betty Lawrance.--
Acquaints her with her nephew's baseness.  Charitably wishes his
reformation; but utterly, and from principle, rejects him.

LETTER LXII.  Clarissa to Mrs. Norton.--
Is comforted by her kind soothings.  Wishes she had been her child.  Will
not allow her to come up to her; why.  Some account of the people she is
with; and of a worthy woman, Mrs. Lovick, who lodges in the house.
Briefly hints to her the vile usage she has received from Lovelace.

LETTER LXIII.  Mrs. Norton to Clarissa.--
Inveighs against Lovelace.  Wishes Miss Howe might be induced to refrain
from freedoms that do hurt, and can do no good.  Farther piously consoles
her.

LETTER LXIV.  Clarissa to Mrs. Norton.--
A new trouble.  An angry letter from Miss Howe.  The occasion.  Her heart
is broken.  Shall be uneasy, till she can get her father's curse revoked.
Casts about to whom she can apply for this purpose.  At last resolves to
write to her sister to beg her mediation.

LETTER LXV.  Miss Howe to Clarissa.--
Her angry and reproachful letter above-mentioned; demands from her the
clearing up of her conduct.

LETTER LXVI.  Clarissa to Miss Howe.--
Gently remonstrates upon her severity.  To this hour knows not all the
methods taken to deceive and ruin her.  But will briefly, yet
circumstantially, enter into the darker part of her sad story, though her
heart sinks under the thoughts of a recollection so painful.

LETTER LXVII. LXVIII. LXIX. LXX.  From the same.--
She gives the promised particulars of her story.  Begs that the blackest
parts of it may be kept secret; and why.  Desires one friendly tear, and
no more, may be dropt from her gentle eye, on the happy day that shall
shut up all her sorrows.

LETTER LXXI. LXXII.  Miss Howe to Clarissa.--
Execrates the abandoned profligate.  She must, she tells her, look to the
world beyond this for her reward.  Unravels some of Lovelace's plots; and
detects his forgeries.  Is apprehensive for her own as well as Clarissa's
safety.  Advises her to pursue a legal vengeance.  Laudable custom in the
Isle of Man.  Offers personally to attend her in a court of justice.

LETTER LXXIII.  Clarissa to Miss Howe.--
Cannot consent to a prosecution.  Discovers who it was that personated
her at Hampstead.  She is quite sick of life, and of an earth in which
innocent and benevolent spirits are sure to be considered as aliens.




THE HISTORY

OF

CLARISSA HARLOWE



LETTER I

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
SAT. MIDNIGHT.


No rest, says a text that I once heard preached upon, to the wicked--and
I cannot close my eyes (yet only wanted to compound for half an hour in
an elbow-chair)--so must scribble on.

I parted with the Captain after another strong debate with him in
relation to what is to be the fate of this lady.  As the fellow has an
excellent head, and would have made an eminent figure in any station of
life, had not his early days been tainted with a deep crime, and he
detected in it; and as he had the right side of the argument; I had a
good deal of difficulty with him; and at last brought myself to promise,
that if I could prevail upon her generously to forgive me, and to
reinstate me in her favour, I would make it my whole endeavour to get off
of my contrivances, as happily as I could; (only that Lady Betty and
Charlotte must come;) and then substituting him for her uncle's proxy,
take shame to myself, and marry.

But if I should, Jack, (with the strongest antipathy to the state that
ever man had,) what a figure shall I make in rakish annals?  And can I
have taken all this pains for nothing?  Or for a wife only, that, however
excellent, [and any woman, do I think I could make good, because I could
make any woman fear as well as love me,] might have been obtained without
the plague I have been at, and much more reputably than with it?  And
hast thou not seen, that this haughty woman [forgive me that I call her
haughty! and a woman!  Yet is she not haughty?]  knows not how to forgive
with graciousness?  Indeed has not at all forgiven me?  But holds my soul
in a suspense which has been so grievous to her own.

At this silent moment, I think, that if I were to pursue my former
scheme, and resolve to try whether I cannot make a greater fault serve as
a sponge to wipe out the less; and then be forgiven for that; I can
justify myself to myself; and that, as the fair invincible would say, is
all in all.

As it is my intention, in all my reflections, to avoid repeating, at
least dwelling upon, what I have before written to thee, though the state
of the case may not have varied; so I would have thee to re-consider the
old reasonings (particularly those contained in my answer to thy last*
expostulatory nonsense); and add the new as they fall from my pen; and
then I shall think myself invincible;--at least, as arguing rake to rake.


* See Vol. V. Letter XIV.


I take the gaining of this lady to be essential to my happiness: and is
it not natural for all men to aim at obtaining whatever they think will
make them happy, be the object more or less considerable in the eyes of
others?

As to the manner of endeavouring to obtain her, by falsification of
oaths, vows, and the like--do not the poets of two thousand years and
upwards tell us, that Jupiter laughs at the perjuries of lovers?  And let
me add, to what I have heretofore mentioned on that head, a question or
two.

Do not the mothers, the aunts, the grandmothers, the governesses of the
pretty innocents, always, from their very cradles to riper years, preach
to them the deceitfulness of men?--That they are not to regard their
oaths, vows, promises?--What a parcel of fibbers would all these reverend
matrons be, if there were not now and then a pretty credulous rogue taken
in for a justification of their preachments, and to serve as a beacon
lighted up for the benefit of the rest?

Do we not then see, that an honest prowling fellow is a necessary evil on
many accounts?  Do we not see that it is highly requisite that a sweet
girl should be now-and-then drawn aside by him?--And the more eminent the
girl, in the graces of person, mind, and fortune, is not the example
likely to be the more efficacious?

If these postulata be granted me, who, I pray, can equal my charmer in
all these?  Who therefore so fit for an example to the rest of her sex?
--At worst, I am entirely within my worthy friend Mandeville's assertion,
that private vices are public benefits.

Well, then, if this sweet creature must fall, as it is called, for the
benefit of all the pretty fools of the sex, she must; and there's an end
of the matter.  And what would there have been in it of uncommon or rare,
had I not been so long about it?--And so I dismiss all further
argumentation and debate upon the question: and I impose upon thee, when
thou writest to me, an eternal silence on this head.


Wafer'd on, as an after-written introduction to the paragraphs which
follow, marked with turned commas, [thus, ']:

Lord, Jack, what shall I do now!  How one evil brings on another!
Dreadful news to tell thee!  While I was meditating a simple robbery,
here have I (in my own defence indeed) been guilty of murder!--A bl--y
murder!  So I believe it will prove.  At her last gasp!--Poor impertinent
opposer!--Eternally resisting!--Eternally contradicting!  There she lies
weltering in her blood! her death's wound have I given her!--But she was
a thief, an impostor, as well as a tormentor.  She had stolen my pen.
While I was sullenly meditating, doubting, as to my future measures, she
stole it; and thus she wrote with it in a hand exactly like my own; and
would have faced me down, that it was really my own hand-writing.

'But let me reflect before it is too late.  On the manifold perfections
of this ever-amiable creature let me reflect.  The hand yet is only held
up.  The blow is not struck.  Miss Howe's next letter may blow thee up.
In policy thou shouldest be now at least honest.  Thou canst not live
without her.  Thou wouldest rather marry her than lose her absolutely.
Thou mayest undoubtedly prevail upon her, inflexible as she seems to be,
for marriage.  But if now she finds thee a villain, thou mayest never
more engage her attention, and she perhaps will refuse and abhor thee.

'Yet already have I not gone too far?  Like a repentant thief, afraid of
his gang, and obliged to go on, in fear of hanging till he comes to be
hanged, I am afraid of the gang of my cursed contrivances.

'As I hope to live, I am sorry, (at the present writing,) that I have
been such a foolish plotter, as to put it, as I fear I have done, out of
my own power to be honest.  I hate compulsion in all forms; and cannot
bear, even to be compelled to be the wretch my choice has made me!  So
now, Belford, as thou hast said, I am a machine at last, and no free
agent.

'Upon my soul, Jack, it is a very foolish thing for a man of spirit to
have brought himself to such a height of iniquity, that he must proceed,
and cannot help himself, and yet to be next to certain, that this very
victory will undo him.

'Why was such a woman as this thrown into my way, whose very fall will
be her glory, and, perhaps, not only my shame but my destruction?

'What a happiness must that man know, who moves regularly to some
laudable end, and has nothing to reproach himself with in his progress
to do it!  When, by honest means, he attains his end, how great and
unmixed must be his enjoyments!  What a happy man, in this particular
case, had I been, had it been given me to be only what I wished to appear
to be!'

Thus far had my conscience written with my pen; and see what a recreant
she had made of me!--I seized her by the throat--There!--There, said I,
thou vile impertinent!--take that, and that!--How often have I gave thee
warning!--and now, I hope, thou intruding varletess, have I done thy
business!

Puling and low-voiced, rearing up thy detested head, in vain implorest
thou my mercy, who, in thy day hast showed me so little!--Take that, for
a rising blow!--And now will thy pain, and my pain for thee, soon be
over.  Lie there!--Welter on!--Had I not given thee thy death's wound,
thou wouldest have robbed me of all my joys.  Thou couldest not have
mended me, 'tis plain.  Thou couldest only have thrown me into despair.
Didst thou not see, that I had gone too far to recede?--Welter on, once
more I bid thee!--Gasp on!--That thy last gasp, surely!--How hard diest
thou!

ADIEU!--Unhappy man!  ADIEU!

'Tis kind in thee, however, to bid me, Adieu!

Adieu, Adieu, Adieu, to thee, O thou inflexible, and, till now,
unconquerable bosom intruder!--Adieu to thee for ever!



LETTER II

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
SUNDAY MORN. (JUNE 11).  FOUR O'CLOCK.


A few words to the verbal information thou sentest me last night
concerning thy poor old man; and then I rise from my seat, shake myself,
refresh, new-dress, and so to my charmer, whom, notwithstanding her
reserves, I hope to prevail upon to walk out with me on the Heath this
warm and fine morning.

The birds must have awakened her before now.  They are in full song.  She
always gloried in accustoming herself to behold the sun rise--one of
God's natural wonders, as once she called it.

Her window salutes the east.  The valleys must be gilded by his rays, by
the time I am with her; for already have they made the up-lands smile, and
the face of nature cheerful.

How unsuitable will thou find this gay preface to a subject so gloomy as
that I am now turning to!

I am glad to hear thy tedious expectations are at last answered.

Thy servant tells me that thou are plaguily grieved at the old fellow's
departure.

I can't say, but thou mayest look as if thou wert; harassed as thou hast
been for a number of days and nights with a close attendance upon a dying
man, beholding his drawing-on hour--pretending, for decency's sake, to
whine over his excruciating pangs; to be in the way to answer a thousand
impertinent inquiries after the health of a man thou wishedest to die--to
pray by him--for so once thou wrotest to me!--To read by him--to be
forced to join in consultation  with a crew of solemn and parading
doctors, and their officious zanies, the apothecaries, joined with the
butcherly tribe of scarficators; all combined to carry on the physical
farce, and to cut out thongs both from his flesh and his estate--to have
the superadded apprehension of dividing thy interest in what he shall
leave with a crew of eager-hoping, never-to-be-satisfied relations,
legatees, and the devil knows who, of private gratifiers of passions
laudable and illaudable--in these circumstances, I wonder not that thou
lookest before servants, (as little grieved as thou after heirship,) as
if thou indeed wert grieved; and as if the most wry-fac'd woe had
befallen thee.

Then, as I have often thought, the reflection that must naturally arise
from such mortifying objects, as the death of one with whom we have been
familiar, must afford, when we are obliged to attend it in its slow
approaches, and in its face-twisting pangs, that it will one day be our
own case, goes a great way to credit the appearance of grief.

And that it is this, seriously reflected upon, may temporally give a fine
air of sincerity to the wailings of lively widows, heart-exulting heirs,
and residuary legatees of all denominations; since, by keeping down the
inward joy, those interesting reflections must sadden the aspect, and add
an appearance of real concern to the assumed sables.

Well, but, now thou art come to the reward of all thy watchings,
anxieties, and close attendances, tell me what it is; tell me if it
compensate thy trouble, and answer thy hope?

As to myself, thou seest, by the gravity of my style, how the subject has
helped to mortify me.  But the necessity I am under of committing either
speedy matrimony, or a rape, has saddened over my gayer prospects, and,
more than the case itself, contributed to make me sympathize with the
present joyful-sorrow.

Adieu, Jack, I must be soon out of my pain; and my Clarissa shall be soon
out of her's--for so does the arduousness of the case require.



LETTER III

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
SUNDAY MORNING.


I have had the honour of my charmer's company for two complete hours.  We
met before six in Mrs. Moore's garden.  A walk on the Heath refused me.

The sedateness of her aspect and her kind compliance in this meeting gave
me hopes.  And all that either the Captain and I had urged yesterday to
obtain a full and free pardon, that re-urged I; and I told her, besides,
that Captain Tomlinson was gone down with hopes to prevail upon her uncle
Harlowe to come up in person, in order to present to me the greatest
blessing that man ever received.

But the utmost I could obtain was, that she would take no resolution in
my favour till she received Miss Howe's next letter.

I will not repeat the arguments I used; but I will give thee the
substance of what she said in answer to them.

She had considered of every thing, she told me.  My whole conduct was
before her.  The house I carried her to must be a vile house.  The people
early showed what they were capable of, in the earnest attempt made to
fasten Miss Partington upon her; as she doubted not, with my approbation.
[Surely, thought I, she has not received a duplicate of Miss Howe's
letter of detection!]  They heard her cries.  My insult was undoubtedly
premeditated.  By my whole recollected behaviour to her, previous to it,
it must be so.  I had the vilest of views, no question.  And my treatment
of her put it out of all doubt.

Soul over all, Belford!  She seems sensible of liberties that my passion
made me insensible of having taken, or she could not so deeply resent.

She besought me to give over all thoughts of her.  Sometimes, she said,
she thought herself cruelly treated by her nearest and dearest relations;
at such times, a spirit of repining and even of resentment took place;
and the reconciliation, at other times so desirable, was not then so much
the favourite wish of her heart, as was the scheme she had formerly
planned--of taking her good Norton for her directress and guide, and
living upon her own estate in the manner her grandfather had intended she
should live.

This scheme she doubted not that her cousin Morden, who was one of her
trustees for that estate, would enable her, (and that, as she hoped,
without litigation,) to pursue.  And if he can, and does, what, Sir, let
me ask you, said she, have I seen in your conduct, that should make me
prefer to it an union of interest, where there is such a disunion in
minds?

So thou seest, Jack, there is reason, as well as resentment, in the
preference she makes against me!--Thou seest, that she presumes to think
that she can be happy without me; and that she must be unhappy with me!

I had besought her, in the conclusion of my re-urged arguments, to write
to Miss Howe before Miss Howe's answer could come, in order to lay before
her the present state of things; and if she would pay a deference to her
judgment, to let her have an opportunity to give it, on the full knowledge
of the case--

So I would, Mr. Lovelace, was the answer, if I were in doubt myself,
which I would prefer--marriage, or the scheme I have mentioned.  You
cannot think, Sir, but the latter must be my choice.  I wish to part with
you with temper--don't put me upon repeating--

Part with me, Madam! interrupted I--I cannot bear those words!--But let
me beseech you, however, to write to Miss Howe.  I hope, if Miss Howe is
not my enemy--

She is not the enemy of your person, Sir;--as you would be convinced, if
you saw her last letter* to me.  But were she not an enemy to your
actions, she would not be my friend, nor the friend of virtue.  Why will
you provoke from me, Mr. Lovelace, the harshness of expression, which,
however, which, however deserved by you, I am unwilling just now to use,
having suffered enough in the two past days from my own vehemence?


* The lady innocently means Mr. Lovelace's forged one.  See Vol. V.
Letter XXX.


I bit my lip for vexation.  And was silent.

Miss Howe, proceeded she, knows the full state of matters already, Sir.
The answer I expect from her respects myself, not you.  Her heart is too
warm in the cause of friendship, to leave me in suspense one moment
longer than is necessary as to what I want to know.  Nor does her answer
absolutely depend upon herself.  She must see a person first, and that
person perhaps see others.

The cursed smuggler-woman, Jack!--Miss Howe's Townsend, I doubt not--
Plot, contrivance, intrigue, stratagem!--Underground-moles these women--
but let the earth cover me!--let me be a mole too, thought I, if they
carry their point!--and if this lady escape me now!

She frankly owned that she had once thought of embarking out of all our
ways for some one of our American colonies.  But now that she had been
compelled to see me, (which had been her greatest dread), and which she
might be happiest in the resumption of her former favourite scheme, if
Miss Howe could find her a reputable and private asylum, till her cousin
Morden could come.--But if he came not soon, and if she had a difficulty
to get to a place of refuge, whether from her brother or from any body
else, [meaning me, I suppose,] she might yet perhaps go abroad; for, to
say the truth, she could not think of returning to her father's house,
since her brother's rage, her sister's upbraidings, her father's anger,
her mother's still-more-affecting sorrowings, and her own consciousness
under them all, would be unsupportable to her.

O Jack!  I am sick to death, I pine, I die, for Miss Howe's next letter!
I would bind, gag, strip, rob, and do any thing but murder, to intercept
it.

But, determined as she seems to be, it was evident to me, nevertheless,
that she had still some tenderness for me.

She often wept as she talked, and much oftener sighed.  She looked at me
twice with an eye of undoubted gentleness, and three times with an eye
tending to compassion and softness; but its benign rays were as often
snatched back, as I may say, and her face averted, as if her sweet eyes
were not to be trusted, and could not stand against my eager eyes;
seeking, as they did, for a lost heart in her's, and endeavouring to
penetrate to her very soul.

More than once I took her hand.  She struggled not much against the
freedom.  I pressed it once with my lips--she was not very angry.  A
frown indeed--but a frown that had more distress in it than indignation.

How came the dear soul, (clothed as it is with such a silken vesture,) by
all its steadiness?*  Was it necessary that the active gloom of such a
tyrant of a father, should commix with such a passive sweetness of a
will-less mother, to produce a constancy, an equanimity, a steadiness, in
the daughter, which never woman before could boast of?  If so, she is
more obliged to that despotic father than I could have imagined a
creature to be, who gave distinction to every one related to her beyond
what the crown itself can confer.


* See Vol. I. Letters IX. XIV. and XIX. for what she herself says on that
steadiness which Mr. Lovelace, though a deserved sufferer by it, cannot
help admiring.


I hoped, I said, that she would admit of the intended visit, which I had
so often mentioned, of the two ladies.

She was here.  She had seen me.  She could not help herself at present.
She even had the highest regard for the ladies of my family, because of
their worthy characters.  There she turned away her sweet face, and
vanquished an half-risen sigh.

I kneeled to her then.  It was upon a verdant cushion; for we were upon
the grass walk.  I caught her hand.  I besought her with an earnestness
that called up, as I could feel, my heart to my eyes, to make me, by her
forgiveness and example, more worthy of them, and of her own kind and
generous wishes.  By my soul, Madam, said I, you stab me with your
goodness--your undeserved goodness! and I cannot bear it!

Why, why, thought I, as I did several times in this conversation, will
she not generously forgive me?  Why will she make it necessary for me to
bring Lady Betty and my cousin to my assistance?  Can the fortress expect
the same advantageous capitulation, which yields not to the summons of a
resistless conqueror, as if it gave not the trouble of bringing up and
raising its heavy artillery against it?

What sensibilities, said the divine creature, withdrawing her hand, must
thou have suppressed!  What a dreadful, what a judicial hardness of heart
must thine be! who canst be capable of such emotions, as sometimes thou
hast shown; and of such sentiments, as sometimes have flowed from thy
lips; yet canst have so far overcome them all as to be able to act as
thou hast acted, and that from settled purpose and premeditation; and
this, as it is said, throughout the whole of thy life, from infancy to
this time!

I told her, that I had hoped, from the generous concern she had expressed
for me, when I was so suddenly and dangerously taken ill--[the
ipecacuanha experiment, Jack!]

She interrupted me--Well have you rewarded me for the concern you speak
of!--However, I will frankly own, now that I am determined to think no
more of you, that you might, (unsatisfied as I nevertheless was with
you,) have made an interest--

She paused.  I besought her to proceed.

Do you suppose, Sir, and turned away her sweet face as we walked,--Do you
suppose that I had not thought of laying down a plan to govern myself by,
when I found myself so unhappily over-reached and cheated, as I may say,
out of myself--When I found, that I could not be, and do, what I wished
to be, and to do, do you imagine that I had not cast about, what was the
next proper course to take?--And do you believe that this next course has
not caused me some pain to be obliged to--

There again she stopt.

But let us break off discourse, resumed she.  The subject grows too--She
sighed--Let us break off discourse--I will go in--I will prepare for
church--[The devil! thought I.]  Well, as I can appear in those
every-day-worn clothes--looking upon herself--I will go to church.

She then turned from me to go into the house.

Bless me, my beloved creature, bless me with the continuance of this
affecting conversation.--Remorse has seized my heart!--I have been
excessively wrong--give me farther cause to curse my heedless folly, by
the continuance of this calm but soul-penetrating conversation.

No, no, Mr. Lovelace: I have said too much.  Impatience begins to break
in upon me.  If you can excuse me to the ladies, it will be better for
my mind's sake, and for your credit's sake, that I do not see them.  Call
me to them over-nice, petulant, prudish--what you please call me to them.
Nobody but Miss Howe, to whom, next to the Almighty, and my own mother, I
wish to stand acquitted of wilful error, shall know the whole of what has
passed.  Be happy, as you may!--Deserve to be happy, and happy you will
be, in your own reflection at least, were you to be ever so unhappy in
other respects.  For myself, if I ever shall be enabled, on due
reflection, to look back upon my own conduct, without the great reproach
of having wilfully, and against the light of my own judgment, erred, I
shall be more happy than if I had all that the world accounts desirable.

The noble creature proceeded; for I could not speak.

This self-acquittal, when spirits are lent me to dispel the darkness
which at present too often over-clouds my mind, will, I hope, make me
superior to all the calamities that can befal me.

Her whole person was informed by her sentiments.  She seemed to be taller
than before.  How the God within her exalted her, not only above me, but
above herself!

Divine creature! (as I thought her,) I called her.  I acknowledged the
superiority of her mind; and was proceeding--but she interrupted me--All
human excellence, said she, is comparative only.  My mind, I believe, is
indeed superior to your's, debased as your's is by evil habits: but I had
not known it to be so, if you had not taken pains to convince me of the
inferiority of your's.

How great, how sublimely great, this creature!--By my soul I cannot
forgive her for her virtues!  There is no bearing the consciousness of
the infinite inferiority she charged me with.--But why will she break
from me, when good resolutions are taking place?  The red-hot iron she
refuses to strike--O why will she suffer the yielding wax to harden?

We had gone but a few paces towards the house, when we were met by the
impertinent women, with notice, that breakfast was ready.  I could only,
with uplifted hands, beseech her to give me hope of a renewed
conversation after breakfast.

No--she would go to church.

And into the house she went, and up stairs directly.  Nor would she
oblige me with her company at the tea-table.

I offered, by Mrs. Moore, to quit both the table and the parlour, rather
than she should exclude herself, or deprive the two widows of the favour
of her company.

That was not all the matter, she told Mrs. Moore.  She had been
struggling to keep down her temper.  It had cost her some pains to do it.
She was desirous to compose herself, in hopes to receive benefit by the
divine worship she was going to join in.

Mrs. Moore hoped for her presence at dinner.

She had rather be excused.  Yet, if she could obtain the frame of mind
she hoped for, she might not be averse to show, that she had got above
those sensibilities, which gave consideration to a man who deserved not
to be to her what he had been.

This said, no doubt, to let Mrs. Moore know, that the garden-conversation
had not been a reconciling one.

Mrs. Moore seemed to wonder that we were not upon a better foot of
understanding, after so long a conference; and the more, as she believed
that the lady had given in to the proposal for the repetition of the
ceremony, which I had told them was insisted upon by her uncle Harlowe.--
But I accounted for this, by telling both widows that she was resolved to
keep on the reserve till she heard from Captain Tomlinson, whether her
uncle would be present in person at the solemnity, or would name that
worthy gentleman for his proxy.

Again I enjoined strict secresy, as to this particular; which was
promised by the widows, as well as for themselves, as for Miss Rawlins;
of whose taciturnity they gave me such an account, as showed me, that she
was secret-keeper-general to all the women of fashion at Hampstead.

The Lord, Jack!  What a world of mischief, at this rate, must Miss
Rawlins know!--What a Pandora's box must her bosom be!--Yet, had I
nothing that was more worthy of my attention to regard, I would engage to
open it, and make my uses of the discovery.

And now, Belford, thou perceivest, that all my reliance is upon the
mediation of Lady Betty and Miss Montague, and upon the hope of
intercepting Miss Howe's next letter.



LETTER IV

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.


This fair inexorable is actually gone to church with Mrs. Moore and Mrs.
Bevis; but Will. closely attends her motions; and I am in the way to
receive any occasional intelligence from him.

She did not choose, [a mighty word with the sex! as if they were always
to have their own wills!] that I should wait upon her.  I did not much
press it, that she might not apprehend that I thought I had reason to
doubt her voluntary return.

I once had it in my head to have found the widow Bevis other employment.
And I believe she would have been as well pleased with my company as to
go to church; for she seemed irresolute when I told her that two out of
a family were enough to go to church for one day.  But having her things
on, (as the women call every thing,) and her aunt Moore expecting her
company, she thought it best to go--lest it should look oddly, you know,
whispered she, to one who was above regarding how it looked.

So here am I in my dining-room; and have nothing to do but to write till
they return.

And what will be my subject thinkest thou?  Why, the old beaten one to be
sure; self-debate--through temporary remorse: for the blow being not
struck, her guardian angel is redoubling his efforts to save her.

If it be not that, [and yet what power should her guardian angel have
over me?]  I don't know what it is that gives a check to my revenge,
whenever I meditate treason against so sovereign a virtue.  Conscience is
dead and gone, as I told thee; so it cannot be that.  A young conscience
growing up, like the phoenix, from the ashes of the old one, it cannot
be, surely.  But if it were, it would be hard, if I could not overlay a
young conscience.

Well, then, it must be LOVE, I fancy.  LOVE itself, inspiring love of an
object so adorable--some little attention possibly paid likewise to thy
whining arguments in her favour.

Let LOVE then be allowed to be the moving principle; and the rather, as
LOVE naturally makes the lover loth to disoblige the object of its flame;
and knowing, that to an offence of the meditated kind will be a mortal
offence to her, cannot bear that I should think of giving it.

Let LOVE and me talk together a little on this subject--be it a young
conscience, or love, or thyself, Jack, thou seest that I am for giving
every whiffler audience.  But this must be the last debate on this
subject; for is not her fate in a manner at its crisis?  And must not my
next step be an irretrievable one, tend it which way it will?


***


And now the debate is over.

A thousand charming things, (for LOVE is gentler than CONSCIENCE,) has
this little urchin suggested in her favour.  He pretended to know both
our hearts: and he would have it, that though my love was a prodigious
strong and potent love; and though it has the merit of many months,
faithful service to plead, and has had infinite difficulties to struggle
with; yet that it is not THE RIGHT SORT OF LOVE.

Right sort of love!--A puppy!--But, with due regard to your deityship,
said I, what merits has she with YOU, that you should be of her party?
Is her's, I pray you, a right sort of love?  Is it love at all?  She
don't pretend that it is.  She owns not your sovereignty.  What a d---l
I moves you, to plead thus earnestly for a rebel, who despises your
power?

And then he came with his If's and And's--and it would have been, and
still, as he believed, would be, love, and a love of the exalted kind, if
I would encourage it by the right sort of love he talked of: and, in
justification of his opinion, pleaded her own confessions, as well those
of yesterday, as of this morning: and even went so far back as to my
ipecacuanha illness.

I never talked so familiarly with his godship before: thou mayest think,
therefore, that his dialect sounded oddly in my ears.  And then he told
me, how often I had thrown cold water upon the most charming flame that
ever warmed a lady's bosom, while but young and rising.

I required a definition of this right sort of love, he tried at it: but
made a sorry hand of it: nor could I, for the soul of me, be convinced,
that what he meant to extol was LOVE.

Upon the whole, we had a noble controversy upon this subject, in which
he insisted upon the unprecedented merit of the lady.  Nevertheless I got
the better of him; for he was struck absolutely dumb, when (waving her
present perverseness, which yet was a sufficient answer to all his pleas)
I asserted, and offered to prove it, by a thousand instances impromptu,
that love was not governed by merit, nor could be under the dominion of
prudence, or any other reasoning power: and if the lady were capable of
love, it was of such a sort as he had nothing to do with, and which never
before reigned in a female heart.

I asked him, what he thought of her flight from me, at a time when I was
more than half overcome by the right sort of love he talked of?--And then
I showed him the letter she wrote, and left behind her for me, with an
intention, no doubt, absolutely to break my heart, or to provoke me to
hang, drown, or shoot myself; to say nothing of a multitude of
declarations from her, defying his power, and imputing all that looked
like love in her behaviour to me, to the persecution and rejection of her
friends; which made her think of me but as a last resort.

LOVE then gave her up.  The letter, he said, deserved neither pardon nor
excuse.  He did not think he had been pleading for such a declared rebel.
And as to the rest, he should be a betrayer of the rights of his own
sovereignty, if what I had alleged were true, and he were still to plead
for her.

I swore to the truth of all.  And truly I swore: which perhaps I do not
always do.

And now what thinkest thou must become of the lady, whom LOVE itself
gives up, and CONSCIENCE cannot plead for?



LETTER V

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
SUNDAY AFTERNOON.


O Belford! what a hair's-breadth escape have I had!--Such a one, that I
tremble between terror and joy, at the thought of what might have
happened, and did not.

What a perverse girl is this, to contend with her fate; yet has reason
to think, that her very stars fight against her!  I am the luckiest of
me!--But my breath almost fails me, when I reflect upon what a slender
thread my destiny hung.

But not to keep thee in suspense; I have, within this half-hour, obtained
possession of the expected letter from Miss Howe--and by such an
accident!  But here, with the former, I dispatch this; thy messenger
waiting.



LETTER VI

MR. LOVELACE
[IN CONTINUATION.]


Thus it was--My charmer accompanied Mrs. Moore again to church this
afternoon.  I had been in very earnest, in the first place, to obtain her
company at dinner: but in vain.  According to what she had said to Mrs.
Moore,* I was too considerable to her to be allowed that favour.  In the
next place, I besought her to favour me, after dinner, with another
garden-walk.  But she would again go to church.  And what reason have I
to rejoice that she did!


* See Letter III. of this volume.


My worthy friend, Mrs. Bevis, thought one sermon a day, well observed,
enough; so staid at home to bear me company.

The lady and Mrs. Moore had not been gone a quarter of an hour, when a
young country-fellow on horseback came to the door, and inquired for Mrs.
Harriot Lucas.  The widow and I (undetermined how we were to entertain
each other) were in the parlour next the door; and hearing the fellow's
inquiry, O my dear Mrs. Bevis, said I, I am undone, undone for ever, if
you don't help me out!--Since here, in all probability, is a messenger
from that implacable Miss Howe with a letter; which, if delivered to Mrs.
Lovelace, may undo all we have been doing.

What, said she, would you have me do?

Call the maid in this moment, that I may give her her lesson; and if it
be as I imagined, I'll tell you what you shall do.

Wid.   Margaret!--Margaret! come in this minute.

Lovel.   What answer, Mrs. Margaret, did you give the man, upon his
asking for Mrs. Harriot Lucas?

Peggy.   I only asked, What was his business, and who he came from? (for,
Sir, your honour's servant had told me how things stood): and I came at
your call, Madam, before he answered me.

Lovel.   Well, child, if ever you wish to be happy in wedlock yourself,
and would have people disappointed who want to make mischief between you
and your husband, get out of him his message, or letter if he has one,
and bring it to me, and say nothing to Mrs. Lovelace, when she comes in;
and here is a guinea for you.

Peggy.   I will do all I can to serve your honour's worship for nothing:
[nevertheless, with a ready hand, taking the guinea:] for Mr. William
tells me what a good gentleman you be.

Away went Peggy to the fellow at the door.

Peggy.   What is your business, friend, with Mrs. Harry Lucas?

Fellow.   I must speak to her her own self.

Lovel.   My dearest widow, do you personate Mrs. Lovelace--for Heaven's
sake do you personate Mrs. Lovelace.

Wid.   I personate Mrs. Lovelace, Sir!  How can I do that?--She is fair;
I am brown.  She is slender: I am plump--

Lovel.   No matter, no matter--The fellow may be a new-come servant: he
is not in livery, I see.  He may not know her person.  You can but be
bloated and in a dropsy.

Wid.   Dropsical people look not so fresh and ruddy as I do.

Lovel.   True--but the clown may not know that.  'Tis but for a present
deception.  Peggy, Peggy, call'd I, in a female tone, softly at the door.
Madam, answer'd Peggy; and came up to me to the parlour-door.

Lovel.  Tell him the lady is ill; and has lain down upon the couch.  And
get his business from him, whatever you do.

Away went Peggy.

Lovel.   Now, my dear widow, lie along the settee, and put your
handkerchief over your face, that, if he will speak to you himself, he
may not see your eyes and your hair.--So--that's right.--I'll step into
the closet by you.

I did so.

Peggy.   [Returning.]  He won't deliver his business to me.  He will
speak to Mrs. Harriot Lucas her own self.

Lovel.  [Holding the door in my hand.]  Tell him that this is Mrs.
Harriot Lucas; and let him come in.  Whisper him (if he doubts) that she
is bloated, dropsical, and not the woman she was.

Away went Margery.

Lovel.   And now, my dear widow, let me see what a charming Mrs. Lovelace
you'll make!--Ask if he comes from Miss Howe.  Ask if he lives with her.
Ask how she does.  Call her, at every word, your dear Miss Howe.  Offer
him money--take this half-guinea for him--complain of your head, to have
a pretence to hold it down; and cover your forehead and eyes with your
hand, where your handkerchief hides not your face.--That's right--and
dismiss the rascal--[here he comes]--as soon as you can.

In came the fellow, bowing and scraping, his hat poked out before him
with both his hands.

Fellow.   I am sorry, Madam, an't please you, to find you ben't well.

Widow.   What is your business with me, friend?

Fellow.   You are Mrs. Harriot Lucas, I suppose, Madam?

Widow.   Yes.  Do you come from Miss Howe?

Fellow.   I do, Madam.

Widow.   Dost thou know my right name, friend?

Fellow.   I can give a shrewd guess.  But that is none of my business.

Widow.   What is thy business?  I hope Miss Howe is well?

Fellow.   Yes, Madam; pure well, I thank God.  I wish you were so too.

Widow.   I am too full of grief to be well.

Fellow.   So belike I have hard to say.

Widow.   My head aches so dreadfully, I cannot hold it up.  I must beg
of you to let me know your business.

Fellow.   Nay, and that be all, my business is soon known.  It is but to
give this letter into your own partiklar hands--here it is.

Widow.   [Taking it.]  From my dear friend Miss Howe?--Ah, my head!

Fellow.   Yes, Madam: but I am sorry you are so bad.

Widow.   Do you live with Miss Howe?

Fellow.   No, Madam: I am one of her tenants' sons.  Her lady-mother must
not know as how I came of this errand.  But the letter, I suppose, will
tell you all.

Widow.   How shall I satisfy you for this kind trouble?

Fellow.   No how at all.  What I do is for love of Miss Howe.  She will
satisfy me more than enough.  But, may-hap, you can send no answer, you
are so ill.

Widow.   Was you ordered to wait for an answer?

Fellow.   No, I cannot say as that I was.  But I was bidden to observe
how you looked, and how you was; and if you did write a line or two, to
take care of it, and give it only to our young landlady in secret.

Widow.   You see I look strangely.  Not so well as I used to do.

Fellow.   Nay, I don't know that I ever saw you but once before; and that
was at a stile, where I met you and my young landlady; but knew better
than to stare a gentlewoman in the face; especially at a stile.

Widow.   Will you eat, or drink, friend?

Fellow.   A cup of small ale, I don't care if I do.

Widow.   Margaret, take the young man down, and treat him with what the
house affords.

Fellow.   Your servant, Madam.  But I staid to eat as I come along, just
upon the Heath yonder; or else, to say the truth, I had been here sooner.
[Thank my stars, thought I, thou didst.]  A piece of powdered beef was
upon the table, at the sign of the Castle, where I stopt to inquire for
this house: and so, thoff I only intended to wet my whistle, I could not
help eating.  So shall only taste of your ale; for the beef was woundily
corned.

Prating dog!  Pox on thee! thought I.

He withdrew, bowing and scraping.

Margaret, whispered I, in a female voice [whispering out of the closet,
and holding the parlour-door in my hand] get him out of the house as fast
as you can, lest they come from church, and catch him here.

Peggy.   Never fear, Sir.

The fellow went down, and it seems, drank a large draught of ale; and
Margaret finding him very talkative, told him, she begged his pardon, but
she had a sweetheart just come from sea, whom she was forced to hide in
the pantry; so was sure he would excuse her from staying with him.

Ay, ay, to be sure, the clown said: for if he could not make sport, he
would spoil none.  But he whispered her, that one 'Squire Lovelace was a
damnation rogue, if the truth might be told.

For what? said Margaret.  And could have given him, she told the widow
(who related to me all this) a good dowse of the chaps.

For kissing all the women he came near.

At the same time, the dog wrapped himself round Margery, and gave her a
smack, that, she told Mrs. Bevis afterwards, she might have heard into
the parlour.

Such, Jack, is human nature: thus does it operate in all degrees; and so
does the clown, as well as his practises!  Yet this sly dog knew not but
the wench had a sweetheart locked up in the pantry!  If the truth were
known, some of the ruddy-faced dairy wenches might perhaps call him a
damnation rogue, as justly as their betters of the same sex might 'Squire
Lovelace.

The fellow told the maid, that, by what he discovered of the young lady's
face, it looked very rosy to what he took it to be; and he thought her a
good deal fatter, as she lay, and not so tall.

All women are born to intrigue, Jack; and practise it more or less, as
fathers, guardians, governesses, from dear experience, can tell; and in
love affairs are naturally expert, and quicker in their wits by half than
men.  This ready, though raw wench, gave an instance of this, and
improved on the dropsical hint I had given her.  The lady's seeming
plumpness was owing to a dropsical disorder, and to the round posture she
lay in--very likely, truly.  Her appearing to him to be shorter, he might
have observed, was owing to her drawing her feet up from pain, and
because the couch was too short, she supposed--Adso, he did not think of
that.  Her rosy colour was owing to her grief and head-ache.--Ay, that
might very well be--but he was highly pleased that he had given the
letter into Mrs. Harriot's own hand, as he should tell Miss Howe.

He desired once more to see the lady at his going away, and would not be
denied.  The widow therefore sat up, with her handkerchief over her face,
leaning her head against the wainscot.

He asked if she had any partiklar message?

No: she was so ill she could not write; which was a great grief to her.

Should he call the next day? for he was going to London, now he was so
near; and should stay at a cousin's that night, who lived in a street
called Fetter-Lane.

No: she would write as soon as able, and send by the post.

Well, then, if she had nothing to send by him, mayhap he might stay in
town a day or two; for he had never seen the lions in the Tower, nor
Bedlam, nor the tombs; and he would make a holiday or two, as he had
leave to do, if she had no business or message that required his posting
down next day.

She had not.

She offered him the half-guinea I had given her for him; but he refused
it with great professions of disinterestedness, and love, as he called
it, to Miss Howe; to serve whom, he would ride to the world's-end, or
even to Jericho.

And so the shocking rascal went away: and glad at my heart was I when he
was gone; for I feared nothing so much as that he would have staid till
they came from church.

Thus, Jack, got I my heart's ease, the letter of Miss Howe; ad through
such a train of accidents, as makes me say, that the lady's stars fight
against her.  But yet I must attribute a good deal to my own precaution,
in having taken right measures.  For had I not secured the widow by my
stories, and the maid by my servant, all would have signified nothing.
And so heartily were they secured, the one by a single guinea, the other
by half a dozen warm kisses, and the aversion they both had to such
wicked creatures as delighted in making mischief between man and wife,
that they promised, that neither Mrs. Moore, Miss Rawlins, Mrs. Lovelace,
nor any body living, should know any thing of the matter.

The widow rejoiced that I had got the mischief-maker's letter.  I excused
myself to her, and instantly withdrew with it; and, after I had read it,
fell to my short-hand, to acquaint thee with my good luck: and they not
returning so soon as church was done, (stepping, as it proved, into Miss
Rawlins's, and tarrying there awhile, to bring that busy girl with them
to drink tea,) I wrote thus far to thee, that thou mightest, when thou
camest to this place, rejoice with me upon the occasion.

They are all three just come in.

I hasten to them.



LETTER VII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.


I have begun another letter to thee, in continuation of my narrative: but
I believe I shall send thee this before I shall finish that.  By the
enclosed thou wilt see, that neither of the correspondents deserve mercy
from me: and I am resolved to make the ending with one the beginning with
the other.

If thou sayest that the provocations I have given to one of them will
justify her freedoms; I answer, so they will, to any other person but
myself.  But he that is capable of giving those provocations, and has the
power to punish those who abuse him for giving them, will show his
resentment; and the more remorselessly, perhaps, as he has deserved the
freedoms.

If thou sayest, it is, however, wrong to do so; I reply, that it is
nevertheless human nature:--And wouldst thou not have me to be a man,
Jack?

Here read the letter, if thou wilt.  But thou art not my friend, if thou
offerest to plead for either of the saucy creatures, after thou hast read
it.


TO MRS. HARRIOT LUCAS,

AT MRS. MOORE'S, AT HAMPSTEAD.
JUNE 10.

After the discoveries I had made of the villanous machinations of the
most abandoned of men, particularized in my long letter of Wednesday*
last, you will believe, my dearest friend, that my surprise upon perusing
your's of Thursday evening from Hampstead** was not so great as my
indignation.  Had the villain attempted to fire a city instead of a
house, I should not have wondered at it.  All that I am amazed at is,
that he (whose boast, as I am told, it is, that no woman shall keep him
out of her bed-chamber, when he has made a resolution to be in it) did
not discover his foot before.  And it is as strange to me, that, having
got you at such a shocking advantage, and in such a horrid house, you
could, at the time, escape dishonour, and afterwards get from such a set
of infernals.


* See Vol. V. Letter XX.
** Ibid.  See Letter XXI.


I gave you, in my long letter of Wednesday and Thursday last, reasons why
you ought to mistrust that specious Tomlinson.  That man, my dear, must
be a solemn villain.  May lightning from Heaven blast the wretch, who has
set him and the rest of his REMORSELESS GANG at work, to endeavour to
destroy the most consummate virtue!--Heaven be praised! you have escaped
from all their snares, and now are out of danger.--So I will not trouble
you at present with the particulars I have further collected relating to
this abominable imposture.

For the same reason, I forbear to communicate to you some new stories of
the abhorred wretch himself which have come to my ears.  One, in
particular, of so shocking a nature!--Indeed, my dear, the man's a devil.

The whole story of Mrs. Fretchville, and her house, I have no doubt to
pronounce, likewise, an absolute fiction.--Fellow!--How my soul spurns
the villain!

Your thought of going abroad, and your reasons for so doing, most
sensibly affect me.  But be comforted, my dear; I hope you will not be
under a necessity of quitting your native country.  Were I sure that that
must be the cruel case, I would abandon all my better prospects, and soon
be with you.  And I would accompany you whithersoever you went, and share
fortunes with you: for it is impossible that I should be happy, if I knew
that you were exposed not only to the perils of the sea, but to the
attempts of other vile men; your personal graces attracting every eye;
and exposing you to those hourly dangers, which others, less
distinguished by the gifts of nature, might avoid.--All that I know that
beauty (so greatly coveted, and so greatly admired) is good for.

O my dear, were I ever to marry, and to be the mother of a CLARISSA,
[Clarissa must be the name, if promisingly lovely,] how often would my
heart ache for the dear creature, as she grew up, when I reflected that a
prudence and discretion, unexampled in woman, had not, in you, been a
sufficient protection to that beauty, which had drawn after it as many
admirers as beholders!--How little should I regret the attacks of that
cruel distemper, as it is called, which frequently makes the greatest
ravages in the finest faces!


SAT. AFTERNOON.

I have just parted with Mrs. Townsend.*  I thought you had once seen her
with me; but she says she never had the honour to be personally known to
you.  She has a manlike spirit.  She knows the world.  And her two
brothers being in town, she is sure she can engage them in so good a
cause, and (if there should be occasion) both their ships' crews, in your
service.


* For the account of Mrs. Townsend, &c. see Vol. IV. Letter XLII.


Give your consent, my dear; and the horrid villain shall be repaid with
broken bones, at least, for all his vileness!

The misfortune is, Mrs. Townsend cannot be with you till Thursday next,
or Wednesday, at soonest: Are you sure you can be safe where you are till
then?  I think you are too near London; and perhaps you had better be in
it.  If you remove, let me, the very moment, know whither.

How my heart is torn, to think of the necessity so dear a creature is
driven to of hiding herself!  Devilish fellow!  He must have been
sportive and wanton in his inventions--yet that cruel, that savage
sportiveness has saved you from the sudden violence to which he has had
recourse in the violation of others, of names and families not
contemptible.  For such the villain always gloried to spread his snares.

The vileness of this specious monster has done more, than any other
consideration could do, to bring Mr. Hickman into credit with me.  Mr.
Hickman alone knows (from me) of your flight, and the reason of it.  Had
I not given him the reason, he might have thought still worse of the vile
attempt.  I communicated it to him by showing him your letter from
Hampstead.  When he had read it, [and he trembled and reddened, as he
read,] he threw himself at my feet, and besought me to permit him to
attend you, and to give you the protection of his house.  The
good-natured man had tears in his eyes, and was repeatedly earnest on this
subject; proposing to take his chariot-and-four, or a set, and in person,
in the face of all the world, give himself the glory of protecting such
an oppressed innocent.

I could not but be pleased with him.  And I let him know that I was.  I
hardly expected so much spirit from him.  But a man's passiveness to a
beloved object of our sex may not, perhaps, argue want of courage on
proper occasions.

I thought I ought, in return, to have some consideration for his safety,
as such an open step would draw upon him the vengeance of the most
villanous enterpriser in the world, who has always a gang of fellows,
such as himself, at his call, ready to support one another in the vilest
outrages.  But yet, as Mr. Hickman might have strengthened his hands by
legal recourses, I should not have stood upon it, had I not known your
delicacy, [since such a step must have made a great noise, and given
occasion for scandal, as if some advantage had been gained over you,] and
were there not the greatest probability that all might be more silently,
and more effectually, managed, by Mrs. Townsend's means.

Mrs. Townsend will in person attend you--she hopes, on Wednesday--her
brothers, and some of their people, will scatteringly, and as if they
knew nothing of you, [so we have contrived,] see you safe not only to
London, but to her house at Deptford.

She has a kinswoman, who will take your commands there, if she herself
be obliged to leave you.  And there you may stay, till the wretch's fury,
on losing you, and his search, are over.

He will very soon, 'tis likely, enter upon some new villany, which may
engross him: and it may be given out, that you are gone to lay claim to
the protection of your cousin Morden at Florence.

Possibly, if he can be made to believe it, he will go over, in hopes to
find you there.

After a while, I can procure you a lodging in one of our neighbouring
villages, where I may have the happiness to be your daily visiter.  And
if this Hickman be not silly and apish, and if my mother do not do
unaccountable things, I may the sooner think of marrying, that I may,
without controul, receive and entertain the darling of my heart.

Many, very many, happy days do I hope we shall yet see together; and as
this is my hope, I expect that it will be your consolation.

As to your estate, since you are resolved not to litigate for it, we will
be patient, either till Colonel Morden arrives, or till shame compels
some people to be just.

Upon the whole, I cannot but think your prospects now much happier than
they could have been, had you been actually married to such a man as
this.  I must therefore congratulate you upon your escape, not only from
a horrid libertine, but from so vile a husband, as he must have made to
any woman; but more especially to a person of your virtue and delicacy.

You hate him, heartily hate him, I hope, my dear--I am sure you do.  It
would be strange, if so much purity of life and manners were not to abhor
what is so repugnant to itself.

In your letter before me, you mention one written to me for a feint.*  I
have not received any such.  Depend upon it, therefore, that he must have
it.  And if he has, it is a wonder that he did not likewise get my long
one of the 7th.  Heaven be praised that he did not; and that it came safe
to your hands!


* See Vol. V. Letters XXI. and XXII.


I send this by a young fellow, whose father is one of our tenants, with
command to deliver it to no other hands but your's.  He is to return
directly, if you give him any letter.  If not, he will proceed to London
upon his own pleasures.  He is a simple fellow; but very honest.  So you
may say anything to him.  If you write not by him, I desire a line or
two, as soon as possible.

My mother knows nothing of his going to you; nor yet of your abandoning
the fellow.  Forgive me!  But he is not entitled to good manners.

I shall long to hear how you and Mrs. Townsend order matters.  I wish
she could have been with you sooner.  But I have lost no time in engaging
her, as you will suppose.  I refer to her, what I have further to say and
advise.  So shall conclude with my prayers, that Heaven will direct and
protect my dearest creature, and make your future days happy!

ANNA HOWE.


And now, Jack, I will suppose that thou hast read this cursed letter.
Allow me to make a few observations upon some of its contents.


It is strange to Miss Howe, that having got her friend at such a shocking
advantage, &c.  And it is strange to me, too.  If ever I have such
another opportunity given to me, the cause of both our wonder, I believe,
will cease.

So thou seest Tomlinson is further detected.--No such person as Mrs.
Fretchville.--May lightning from Heaven--O Lord, O Lord, O Lord!--What a
horrid vixen is this!--My gang, my remorseless gang, too, is brought in--
and thou wilt plead for these girls again; wilt thou? heaven be praised,
she says, that her friend is out of danger--Miss Howe should be sure of
that, and that she herself is safe.--But for this termagant, (as I often
said,) I must surely have made a better hand of it.--

New stories of me, Jack!--What can they be?--I have not found that my
generosity to my Rose-bud ever did me due credit with this pair of
friends.  Very hard, Belford, that credits cannot be set against debits,
and a balance struck in a rake's favour, as well as in that of every
common man!--But he, from whom no good is expected, is not allowed the
merit of the good he does.

I ought to have been a little more attentive to character than I have
been.  For, notwithstanding that the measures of right and wrong are said
to be so manifest, let me tell thee, that character biases and runs away
with all mankind.  Let a man or woman once establish themselves in the
world's opinion, and all that either of them do will be sanctified.  Nay,
in the very courts of justice, does not character acquit or condemn as
often as facts, and sometimes even in spite of facts?--Yet, [impolitic
that I have been and am!] to be so careless of mine!--And now, I doubt,
it is irretrievable.--But to leave moralizing.

Thou, Jack, knowest almost all my enterprises worth remembering.  Can
this particular story, which this girl hints at, be that of Lucy Villars?
--Or can she have heard of my intrigue with the pretty gipsey, who met me
in Norwood, and of the trap I caught her cruel husband in, [a fellow as
gloomy and tyrannical as old Harlowe,] when he pursued a wife, who would
not have deserved ill of him, if he had deserved well of her!--But he was
not quite drowned.  The man is alive at this day, and Miss Howe mentions
the story as a very shocking one.  Besides, both these are a twelve-month
old, or more.

But evil fame and scandal are always new.  When the offender has forgot a
vile fact, it is often told to one and to another, who, having never
heard of it before, trumpet it about as a novelty to others.  But well
said the honest corregidor at Madrid, [a saying with which I encroached
Lord M.'s collection,]--Good actions are remembered but for a day: bad
ones for many years after the life of the guilty.  Such is the relish
that the world has for scandal.  In other words, such is the desire which
every one has to exculpate himself by blackening his neighbour.  You and
I, Belford, have been very kind to the world, in furnishing it with
opportunities to gratify its devil.

[Miss Howe will abandon her own better prospects, and share fortunes with
her, were she to go abroad.]--Charming romancer!--I must set about this
girl, Jack.  I have always had hopes of a woman whose passions carry her
to such altitudes.--Had I attacked Miss Howe first, her passions,
(inflamed and guided as I could have managed them,) would have brought
her into my lure in a fortnight.

But thinkest thou, [and yet I think thou dost,] that there is any thing
in these high flights among the sex?--Verily, Jack, these vehement
friendships are nothing but chaff and stubble, liable to be blown away by
the very wind that raises them.  Apes, mere apes of us! they think the
word friendship has a pretty sound with it; and it is much talked of--a
fashionable word.  And so, truly, a single woman, who thinks she has a
soul, and knows that she wants something, would be thought to have found
a fellow-soul for it in her own sex.  But I repeat, that the word is a
mere word, the thing a mere name with them; a cork-bottomed shuttle-cock,
which they are fond of striking to and fro, to make one another glow in
the frosty weather of a single-state; but which, when a man comes in
between the pretended inseparables, is given up, like their music and
other maidenly amusements; which, nevertheless, may be necessary to keep
the pretty rogues out of active mischief.  They then, in short, having
caught the fish, lay aside the net.*


* He alludes here to the story of a pope, who, (once a poor fisherman,)
through every preferment he rose to, even to that of the cardinalate,
hung up in view of all his guests his net, as a token of humility.  But,
when he arrived at the pontificate, he took it down, saying, that there
was no need of the net, when he had caught the fish.


Thou hast a mind, perhaps, to make an exception for these two ladies.--
With all my heart.  My Clarissa has, if woman has, a soul capable of
friendship.  Her flame is bright and steady.  But Miss Howe's, were it
not kept up by her mother's opposition, is too vehement to endure.  How
often have I known opposition not only cement friendship, but create
love?  I doubt not but poor Hickman would fare the better with this
vixen, if her mother were as heartily against him, as she is for him.

Thus much, indeed, as to these two ladies, I will grant thee, that the
active spirit of the one, and the meek disposition of the other, may make
their friendship more durable than it would otherwise be; for this is
certain, that in every friendship, whether male or female, there must be
a man and a woman spirit, (that is to say, one of them must be a
forbearing one,) to make it permanent.

But this I pronounce, as a truth, which all experience confirms, that
friendship between women never holds to the sacrifice of capital
gratifications, or to the endangering of life, limb, or estate, as it
often does in our nobler sex.

Well, but next comes an indictment against poor beauty!  What has beauty
done that Miss Howe should be offended at it?--Miss Howe, Jack, is a
charming girl.  She has no reason to quarrel with beauty!--Didst ever see
her?--Too much fire and spirit in her eye, indeed, for a girl!--But
that's no fault with a man that can lower that fire and spirit at
pleasure; and I know I am the man that can.

For my own part, when I was first introduced to this lady, which was by
my goddess when she herself was a visiter at Mrs. Howe's, I had not been
half an hour with her, but I even hungered and thirsted after a romping
'bout with the lively rogue; and, in the second or third visit, was more
deterred by the delicacy of her friend, than by what I apprehended from
her own.  This charming creature's presence, thought I, awes us both.
And I wished her absence, though any other woman were present, that I
might try the differences in Miss Howe's behaviour before her friend's
face, or behind her back.

Delicate women make delicate women, as well as decent men.  With all Miss
Howe's fire and spirit, it was easy to see, by her very eye, that she
watched for lessons and feared reproof from the penetrating eye of her
milder dispositioned friend;* and yet it was as easy to observe, in the
candour and sweet manners of the other, that the fear which Miss Howe
stood in of her, was more owing to her own generous apprehension that she
fell short of her excellencies, than to Miss Harlowe's consciousness of
excellence over her.  I have often since I came at Miss Howe's letters,
revolved this just and fine praise contained in one of them:** 'Every one
saw that the preference they gave you to themselves exalted you not into
any visible triumph over them; for you had always something to say, on
every point you carried, that raised the yielding heart, and left every
one pleased and satisfied with themselves, though they carried not off
the palm.'


* Miss Howe, in Vol. III. Letter XIX. says, That she was always more
afraid of Clarissa than of her mother; and, in Vol. III. Letter XLIV.
That she fears her almost as much as she loves her; and in many other
places, in her letters, verifies this observation of Lovelace.
** See Vol. IV. Letter XXXI.


As I propose, in a more advanced life, to endeavour to atone for my
useful freedoms with individuals of the sex, by giving cautions and
instructions to the whole, I have made a memorandum to enlarge upon this
doctrine;--to wit, that it is full as necessary to direct daughters in
the choice of their female companions, as it is to guard them against the
designs of men.

I say not this, however, to the disparagement of Miss Howe.  She has from
pride, what her friend has from principle.  [The Lord help the sex, if
they had not pride!]  But yet I am confident, that Miss Howe is indebted
to the conversation and correspondence of Miss Harlowe for her highest
improvements.  But, both these ladies out of the question, I make no
scruple to aver, [and I, Jack, should know something of the matter,] that
there have been more girls ruined, at least prepared for ruin, by their
own sex, (taking in servants, as well as companions,) than directly by
the attempts and delusions of men.

But it is time enough when I am old and joyless, to enlarge upon this
topic.

As to the comparison between the two ladies, I will expatiate more on
that subject, (for I like it,) when I have had them both.  Which this
letter of the vixen girl's, I hope thou wilt allow, warrants me to try
for.

I return to the consideration of a few more of its contents, to justify
my vengeances so nearly now in view.

As to Mrs. Townsend,--her manlike spirit--her two brothers--and the
ships' crews--I say nothing but this to the insolent threatening--Let 'em
come!--But as to her sordid menace--To repay the horrid villain, as she
calls me, for all my vileness by BROKEN BONES!--Broken bones, Belford!--
Who can bear this porterly threatening!--Broken bones, Jack!--D--n the
little vulgar!--Give me a name for her--but I banish all furious
resentment.  If I get these two girls into my power, Heaven forbid that I
should be a second Phalaris, who turned his bull upon the artist!--No
bones of their's will I break--They shall come off with me upon much
lighter terms!--

But these fellows are smugglers, it seems.  And am not I a smuggler too?
--I am--and have not the least doubt but I shall have secured my goods
before Thursday, or Wednesday either.

But did I want a plot, what a charming new one does this letter of Miss
Howe strike me out!  I am almost sorry, that I have fixed upon one.--For
here, how easy would it be for me to assemble a crew of swabbers, and to
create a Mrs. Townsend (whose person, thou seest, my beloved knows not)
to come on Tuesday, at Miss Howe's repeated solicitations, in order to
carry my beloved to a warehouse of my own providing?

This, however, is my triumphant hope, that at the very time that these
ragamuffins will be at Hampstead (looking for us) my dear Miss Harlowe
and I [so the Fates I imagine have ordained] shall be fast asleep in
each other's arms in town.--Lie still, villain, till the time comes.--
My heart, Jack! my heart!--It is always thumping away on the remotest
prospects of this nature.

But it seems that the vileness of this specious monster [meaning me,
Jack!] has brought Hickman into credit with her.  So I have done some
good!  But to whom I cannot tell: for this poor fellow, should I permit
him to have this termagant, will be punished, as many times we all are,
by the enjoyment of his own wishes--nor can she be happy, as I take it,
with him, were he to govern himself by her will, and have none of his
own; since never was there a directing wife who knew where to stop: power
makes such a one wanton--she despises the man she can govern.  Like
Alexander, who wept, that he had no more worlds to conquer, she will be
looking out for new exercises for her power, till she grow uneasy to
herself, a discredit to her husband, and a plague to all about her.

But this honest fellow, it seems, with tears in his eyes, and with humble
prostration, besought the vixen to permit him to set out in his
chariot-and-four, in order to give himself the glory of protecting such an
oppressed innocent, in the face of the whole world.  Nay, he reddened, it
seems: and trembled too! as he read the fair complainant's letter.--How
valiant is all this!--Women love brave men; and no wonder that his tears,
his trembling, and his prostration, gave him high reputation with the meek
Miss Howe.

But dost think, Jack, that I in the like case (and equally affected with
the distress) should have acted thus?  Dost think, that I should not
first have rescued the lady, and then, if needful, have asked excuse for
it, the lady in my hand?--Wouldst not thou have done thus, as well as I?

But, 'tis best as it is.  Honest Hickman may now sleep in a whole skin.
And yet that is more perhaps than he would have done (the lady's
deliverance unattempted) had I come at this requested permission of his
any other way than by a letter that it must not be known that I have
intercepted.

Miss Howe thinks I may be diverted from pursuing my charmer, by some
new-started villany.  Villany is a word that she is extremely fond of.
But I can tell her, that it is impossible I should, till the end of this
villany be obtained.  Difficulty is a stimulus with such a spirit as mine.
I thought Miss Howe knew me better.  Were she to offer herself, person for
person, in the romancing zeal of her friendship, to save her friend, it
should not do, while the dear creature is on this side the moon.

She thanks Heaven, that her friend has received her letter of the 7th.
We are all glad of it.  She ought to thank me too.  But I will not at
present claim her thanks.

But when she rejoices that the letter went safe, does she not, in effect,
call out for vengeance, and expect it!--All in good time, Miss Howe.
When settest thou out for the Isle of Wight, love?

I will close at this time with desiring thee to make a list of the
virulent terms with which the enclosed letter abounds: and then, if thou
supposest that I have made such another, and have added to it all the
flowers of the same blow, in the former letters of the same saucy
creature, and those in that of Miss Harlowe, which she left for me on her
elopement, thou wilt certainly think, that I have provocations sufficient
to justify me in all that I shall do to either.

Return the enclosed the moment thou hast perused it.



LETTER VIII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
SUNDAY NIGHT--MONDAY MORNING.


I went down with revenge in my heart, the contents of Miss Howe's letter
almost engrossing me, the moment that Miss Harlowe and Mrs. Moore
(accompanied by Miss Rawlins) came in: but in my countenance all the
gentle, the placid, the serene, that the glass could teach; and in my
behaviour all the polite, that such an unpolite creature, as she has
often told me I am, could put on.

Miss Rawlins was sent for home almost as soon as she came in, to
entertain an unexpected visiter; to her great regret, as well as to the
disappointment of my fair-one, as I could perceive from the looks of
both: for they had agreed, it seems, if I went to town, as I said I
intended to do, to take a walk upon the Heath, at least in Mrs. Moore's
garden; and who knows, what might have been the issue, had the spirit of
curiosity in the one met with the spirit of communication in the other?

Miss Rawlins promised to return, if possible: but sent to excuse herself:
her visiter intending to stay with her all night.

I rejoiced in my heart at her message; and, after much supplication,
obtained the favour of my beloved's company for another walk in the
garden, having, as I told her, abundance of things to say, to propose,
and to be informed of, in order ultimately to govern myself in my future
steps.

She had vouchsafed, I should have told thee, with eyes turned from me,
and in a half-aside attitude, to sip two dishes of tea in my company--
Dear soul!--How anger unpolishes the most polite! for I never saw Miss
Harlowe behave so awkwardly.  I imagined she knew not how to be awkward.

When we were in the garden, I poured my whole soul into her attentive
ear; and besought her returning favour.

She told me, that she had formed her scheme for her future life: that,
vile as the treatment was which she had received from me, that was not
all the reason she had for rejecting my suit: but that, on the maturest
deliberation, she was convinced that she could neither be happy with me,
nor make me happy; and she injoined me, for both our sakes, to think no
more of her.

The Captain, I told her, was rid down post, in a manner, to forward my
wishes with her uncle.--Lady Betty and Miss Montague were undoubtedly
arrived in town by this time.  I would set out early in the morning to
attend them.  They adored her.  They longed to see her.  They would see
her.--They would not be denied her company in Oxfordshire.  Whither could
she better go, to be free from her brother's insults?--Whither, to be
absolutely made unapprehensive of any body else?--Might I have any hopes
of her returning favour, if Miss Howe could be prevailed upon to
intercede for me?

Miss Howe prevailed upon to intercede for you! repeated she, with a
scornful bridle, but a very pretty one.--And there she stopt.

I repeated the concern it would be to me to be under a necessity of
mentioning the misunderstanding to Lady Betty and my cousin, as a
misunderstanding still to be made up; and as if I were of very little
consequence to a dear creature who was of so much to me; urging, that
these circumstances would extremely lower me not only in my own opinion,
but in that of my relations.

But still she referred to Miss Howe's next letter; and all the concession
I could bring her to in this whole conference, was, that she would wait
the arrival and visit of the two ladies, if they came in a day or two, or
before she received the expected letter from Miss Howe.

Thank Heaven for this! thought I.  And now may I go to town with hopes at
my return to find thee, dearest, where I shall leave thee.

But yet, as she may find reasons to change her mind in my absence, I
shall not entirely trust to this.  My fellow, therefore, who is in the
house, and who, by Mrs. Bevis's kind intelligence, will know every step
she can take, shall have Andrew and a horse ready, to give me immediate
notice of her motions; and moreover, go whither she will, he shall be one
of her retinue, though unknown to herself, if possible.

This was all I could make of the fair inexorable.  Should I be glad of
it, or sorry for it?--

Glad I believe: and yet my pride is confoundedly abated, to think that I
had so little hold in the affections of this daughter of the Harlowes.

Don't tell me that virtue and principle are her guides on this occasion!
--'Tis pride, a greater pride than my own, that governs her.  Love, she
has none, thou seest; nor ever had; at least not in a superior degree.
Love, that deserves the name, never was under the dominion of prudence,
or of any reasoning power.  She cannot bear to be thought a woman, I
warrant!  And if, in the last attempt, I find her not one, what will she
be the worse for the trial?--No one is to blame for suffering an evil he
cannot shun or avoid.

Were a general to be overpowered, and robbed by a highwayman, would he be
less fit for the command of an army on that account?--If indeed the
general, pretending great valour, and having boasted that he never would
be robbed, were to make but faint resistance when he was brought to the
test, and to yield his purse when he was master of his own sword, then
indeed will the highwayman who robs him be thought the braver man.

But from these last conferences am I furnished with one argument in
defence of my favourite purpose, which I never yet pleaded.

O Jack! what a difficulty must a man be allowed to have to conquer a
predominant passion, be it what it will, when the gratifying of it is in
his power, however wrong he knows it to be to resolve to gratify it!
Reflect upon this; and then wilt thou be able to account for, if not to
excuse, a projected crime, which has habit to plead for it, in a breast
as stormy as uncontroulable!

This that follows is my new argument--

Should she fail in the trial; should I succeed; and should she refuse to
go on with me; and even resolve not to marry me (of which I can have no
notion); and should she disdain to be obliged to me for the handsome
provision I should be proud to make for her, even to the half of my
estate; yet cannot she be altogether unhappy--Is she not entitled to an
independent fortune?  Will not Col. Morden, as her trustee, put her in
possession of it?  And did she not in our former conference point out the
way of life, that she always preferred to the married life--to wit, 'To
take her good Norton for her directress and guide, and to live upon her
own estate in the manner her grandfather desired she should live?'*


* See Letter III. of this volume.


It is moreover to be considered that she cannot, according to her own
notions, recover above one half of her fame, were we not to intermarry;
so much does she think she has suffered by her going off with me.  And
will she not be always repining and mourning for the loss of the other
half?--And if she must live a life of such uneasiness and regret for
half, may she not as well repine and mourn for the whole?

Nor, let me tell thee, will her own scheme or penitence, in this case, be
half so perfect, if she do not fall, as if she does: for what a foolish
penitent will she make, who has nothing to repent of!--She piques
herself, thou knowest, and makes it matter of reproach to me, that she
went not off with me by her own consent; but was tricked out of herself.

Nor upbraid thou me upon the meditated breach of vows so repeatedly made.
She will not, thou seest, permit me to fulfil them.  And if she would,
this I have to say, that, at the time I made the most solemn of them, I
was fully determined to keep them.  But what prince thinks himself
obliged any longer to observe the articles of treaties, the most sacredly
sworn to, than suits with his interest or inclination; although the
consequence of the infraction must be, as he knows, the destruction of
thousands.

Is not this then the result of all, that Miss Clarissa Harlowe, if it be
not her own fault, may be as virtuous after she has lost her honour, as
it is called, as she was before?  She may be a more eminent example to
her sex; and if she yield (a little yield) in the trial, may be a
completer penitent.  Nor can she, but by her own wilfulness, be reduced
to low fortunes.

And thus may her old nurse and she; an old coachman; and a pair of old
coach-horses; and two or three old maid-servants, and perhaps a very old
footman or two, (for every thing will be old and penitential about her,)
live very comfortably together; reading old sermons, and old
prayer-books; and relieving old men and old women; and giving old lessons,
and old warnings, upon new subjects, as well as old ones, to the young
ladies of her neighbourhood; and so pass on to a good old age, doing a
great deal of good both by precept and example in her generation.

And is a woman who can live thus prettily without controul; who ever did
prefer, and who still prefers, the single to the married life; and who
will be enabled to do every thing that the plan she had formed will
direct her to do; to be said to be ruined, undone, and such sort of
stuff?--I have no patience with the pretty fools, who use those strong
words, to describe a transitory evil; an evil which a mere church-form
makes none?

At this rate of romancing, how many flourishing ruins dost thou, as well
as I, know?  Let us but look about us, and we shall see some of the
haughtiest and most censorious spirits among out acquaintance of that sex
now passing for chaste wives, of whom strange stories might be told; and
others, whose husbands' hearts have been made to ache for their gaieties,
both before and after marriage; and yet know not half so much of them, as
some of us honest fellows could tell them.

But, having thus satisfied myself in relation to the worst that can
happen to this charming creature; and that it will be her own fault, if
she be unhappy; I have not at all reflected upon what is likely to be my
own lot.

This has always been my notion, though Miss Howe grudges us rakes the
best of the sex, and says, that the worst is too good for us,* that the
wife of a libertine ought to be pure, spotless, uncontaminated.  To what
purpose has such a one lived a free life, but to know the world, and to
make his advantages of it!--And, to be very serious, it would be a
misfortune to the public for two persons, heads of a family, to be both
bad; since, between two such, a race of varlets might be propagated
(Lovelaces and Belfords, if thou wilt) who might do great mischief in the
world.

Thou seest at bottom that I am not an abandoned fellow; and that there is
a mixture of gravity in me.  This, as I grow older, may increase; and
when my active capacity begins to abate, I may sit down with the
preacher, and resolve all my past life into vanity and vexation of
spirit.

This is certain, that I shall never find a woman so well suited to my
taste as Miss Clarissa Harlowe.  I only wish that I may have such a lady
as her to comfort and adorn my setting sun.  I have often thought it very
unhappy for us both, that so excellent a creature sprang up a little too
late for my setting out, and a little too early in my progress, before I
can think of returning.  And yet, as I have picked up the sweet traveller
in my way, I cannot help wishing that she would bear me company in the
rest of my journey, although she were stepping out of her own path to
oblige me.  And then, perhaps, we could put up in the evening at the same
inn; and be very happy in each other's conversation; recounting the
difficulties and dangers we had passed in our way to it.

I imagine that thou wilt be apt to suspect that some passages in this
letter were written in town.  Why, Jack, I cannot but say that the
Westminster air is a little grosser than that at Hampstead; and the
conversation of Mrs. Sinclair and the nymphs less innocent than Mrs.
Moore's and Miss Rawlins's.  And I think in my heart I can say and write
those things at one place which I cannot at the other, nor indeed any
where else.

I came to town about seven this morning--all necessary directions and
precautions remembered to be given.

I besought the favour of an audience before I set out.  I was desirous
to see which of her lovely faces she was pleased to put on, after another
night had passed.  But she was resolved, I found, to leave our quarrel
open.  She would not give me an opportunity so much as to entreat her
again to close it, before the arrival of Lady Betty and my cousin.

I had notice from my proctor, by a few lines brought by a man and horse,
just before I set out, that all difficulties had been for two days past
surmounted; and that I might have the license for fetching.

I sent up the letter to my beloved, by Mrs. Bevis, with a repeated
request for admittance to her presence upon it; but neither did this
stand me in stead.  I suppose she thought it would be allowing of the
consequences that were naturally to be expected to follow the obtaining
of this instrument, if she had consented to see me on the contents of
this letter, having refused me that honour before I sent it up to her.--
No surprising her.--No advantage to be taken of her inattention to the
nicest circumstances.

And now, Belford, I set out upon business.



LETTER IX

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
MONDAY, JUNE 12.


Durst ever see a license, Jack?

'Edmund, by divine permission, Lord Bishop of London, to our well-beloved
in Christ, Robert Lovelace, [your servant, my good Lord!  What have I
done to merit so much goodness, who never saw your Lordship in my life?]
of the parish of St. Martin's in the Fields, bachelor, and Clarissa
Harlowe, of the same parish, spinster, sendeth greeting.--WHEREAS ye are,
as is alleged, determined to enter into the holy state of Matrimony [this
is only alleged, thou observest] by and with the consent of, &c. &c. &c.
and are very desirous of obtaining your marriage to be solemnized in the
face of the church: We are willing that your honest desires [honest
desires, Jack!] may more speedily have their due effect: and therefore,
that ye may be able to procure such Marriage to be freely and lawfully
solemnized in the parish church of St. Martin's in the Fields, or St.
Giles's in the Fields, in the county of Middlesex, by the Rector, Vicar,
or Curate thereof, at any time of the year, [at ANY time of the year,
Jack!] without publication of bans: Provided, that by reason of any
pre-contract, [I verily think that I have had three or four pre-contracts
in my time; but the good girls have not claimed upon them of a long
while,] consanguinity, affinity, or any other lawful cause whatsoever,
there be no lawful impediment on this behalf; and that there be not at
this time any action, suit, plaint, quarrel, or demand, moved or depending
before any judge ecclesiastical or temporal, for or concerning any
marriage contracted by or with either of you; and that the said marriage
be openly solemnized in the church above-mentioned, between the hours of
eight and twelve in the forenoon; and without prejudice to the minister of
the place where the said woman is a parishioner: We do hereby, for good
causes, [it cost me--let me see, Jack--what did it cost me?] give and
grant our License, as well to you as to the parties contracting, as to the
Rector, Vicar, or Curate of the said church, where the said marriage is
intended to be solemnized, to solemnize the same, in manner and form above
specified, according to the rites and ceremonies prescribed in the Book of
Common Prayer in that behalf published by authority of Parliament.
Provided always, that if hereafter any fraud shall appear to have been
committed, at the time of granting this License, either by false
suggestions, or concealment of the truth, [now this, Belford, is a little
hard upon us; for I cannot say that every one of our suggestions is
literally true:--so, in good conscience, I ought not to marry under this
License;] the License shall be void to all intents and purposes, as if the
same had not been granted.  And in that case we do inhibit all ministers
whatsoever, if any thing of the premises shall come to their knowledge,
from proceeding to the celebration of the said Marriage; without first
consulting Us, or our Vicar-general.  Given,' &c.

Then follow the register's name, and a large pendent seal, with these
words round it--SEAL OF THE VICAR-GENERAL AND OFFICIAL PRINCIPAL OF THE
DIOCESE OF LONDON.

A good whimsical instrument, take it altogether!  But what, thinkest
thou, are the arms to this matrimonial harbinger?--Why, in the first
place, two crossed swords; to show that marriage is a state of offence
as well as defence; three lions; to denote that those who enter into the
state ought to have a triple proportion of courage.  And [couldst thou
have imagined that these priestly fellows, in so solemn a case, would cut
their jokes upon poor souls who came to have their honest desires put in
a way to be gratified;] there are three crooked horns, smartly
top-knotted with ribands; which being the ladies' wear, seem to indicate
that they may very probably adorn, as well as bestow, the bull's feather.

To describe it according to heraldry art, if I am not mistaken--gules,
two swords, saltire-wise, or; second coat, a chevron sable between three
bugle-horns, OR [so it ought to be]: on a chief of the second, three
lions rampant of the first--but the devil take them for their
hieroglyphics, should I say, if I were determined in good earnest to
marry!

And determined to marry I would be, were it not for this consideration,
that once married, and I am married for life.

That's the plague of it!--Could a man do as the birds do, change every
Valentine's day, [a natural appointment! for birds have not the sense,
forsooth, to fetter themselves, as we wiseacre men take great and solemn
pains to do,] there would be nothing at all in it.  And what a glorious
time would the lawyers have, on the one hand, with their noverini
universi's, and suits commenceable on restitution of goods and chattels;
and the parsons, on the other, with their indulgencies [renewable
annually, as other licenses] to the honest desires of their clients?

Then, were a stated mullet, according to rank or fortune, to be paid on
every change, towards the exigencies of the state [but none on renewals
with the old lives, for the sake of encouraging constancy, especially
among the minores] the change would be made sufficiently difficult, and
the whole public would be the better for it; while those children, which
the parents could not agree about maintaining, might be considered as the
children of the public, and provided for like the children of the antient
Spartans; who were (as ours would in this case be) a nation of heroes.
How, Jack, could I have improved upon Lycurgus's institutions had I been
a lawgiver!

Did I never show thee a scheme which I drew up on such a notion as this?
--In which I demonstrated the conveniencies, and obviated the
inconveniencies, of changing the present mode to this?  I believe I never
did.

I remember I proved to a demonstration, that such a change would be a
mean of annihilating, absolutely annihilating, four or five very
atrocious and capital sins.--Rapes, vulgarly so called; adultery, and
fornication; nor would polygamy be panted after.  Frequently would it
prevent murders and duelling; hardly any such thing as jealousy (the
cause of shocking violences) would be heard of: and hypocrisy between man
and wife be banished the bosoms of each.  Nor, probably, would the
reproach of barrenness rest, as it now too often does, where it is least
deserved.--Nor would there possibly be such a person as a barren woman.

Moreover, what a multitude of domestic quarrels would be avoided, where
such a scheme carried into execution?  Since both sexes would bear with
each other, in the view that they could help themselves in a few months.

And then what a charming subject for conversation would be the gallant
and generous last partings between man and wife!  Each, perhaps, a new
mate in eye, and rejoicing secretly in the manumission, could afford to
be complaisantly sorrowful in appearance.  'He presented her with this
jewel, it will be said by the reporter, for example sake: she him with
that.  How he wept!  How she sobb'd!  How they looked after one another!'
Yet, that's the jest of it, neither of them wishing to stand another
twelvemonth's trial.

And if giddy fellows, or giddy girls, misbehave in a first marriage,
whether from noviceship, having expected to find more in the matter than
can be found; or from perverseness on her part, or positiveness on his,
each being mistaken in the other [a mighty difference, Jack, in the same
person, an inmate or a visiter]; what a fine opportunity will each have,
by this scheme, of recovering a lost character, and of setting all right
in the next adventure?

And, O Jack! with what joy, with what rapture, would the changelings (or
changeables, if thou like that word better) number the weeks, the days,
the hours, as the annual obligation approached to its desirable period!

As for the spleen or vapours, no such malady would be known or heard of.
The physical tribe would, indeed, be the sufferers, and the only
sufferers; since fresh health and fresh spirits, the consequences of
sweet blood and sweet humours (the mind and body continually pleased with
each other) would perpetually flow in; and the joys of expectation, the
highest of all our joys, would invigorate and keep all alive.

But, that no body of men might suffer, the physicians, I thought, might
turn parsons, as there would be a great demand for parsons.  Besides, as
they would be partakers in the general benefit, they must be sorry
fellows indeed if they preferred themselves to the public.

Every one would be married a dozen times at least.  Both men and women
would be careful of their characters and polite in their behaviour, as
well as delicate in their persons, and elegant in their dress, [a great
matte each of these, let me tell thee, to keep passion alive,] either to
induce a renewal with the old love, or to recommend themselves to a new.
While the newspapers would be crowded with paragraphs; all the world
their readers, as all the world would be concerned to see who and who's
together--

'Yesterday, for instance, entered into the holy state of matrimony,' [we
should all speak reverently of matrimony, then,] 'the right Honourable
Robert Earl Lovelace' [I shall be an earl by that time,] 'with her Grace
the Duchess Dowager of Fifty-manors; his Lordship's one-and-thirtieth
wife.'--I shall then be contented, perhaps, to take up, as it is called,
with a widow.  But she must not have had more than one husband neither.
Thou knowest that I am nice in these particulars.

I know, Jack, that thou for thy part, wilt approve of my scheme.

As Lord M. and I, between us, have three or four boroughs at command, I
think I will get into parliament, in order to bring in a bill for this
good purpose.

Neither will the house of parliament, nor the houses of convocation, have
reason to object it.  And all the courts, whether spiritual or sensual,
civil or uncivil, will find their account in it when passed into a law.

By my soul, Jack, I should be apprehensive of a general insurrection, and
that incited by the women, were such a bill to be thrown out.--For here
is the excellency of the scheme: the women will have equal reason with
the men to be pleased with it.

Dost think, that old prerogative Harlowe, for example, must not, if such
a law were in being, have pulled in his horns?--So excellent a wife as he
has, would never else have renewed with such a gloomy tyrant: who, as
well as all other married tyrants, must have been upon good behaviour
from year to year.

A termagant wife, if such a law were to pass, would be a phoenix.

The churches would be the only market-place for the fair sex; and
domestic excellence the capital recommendation.

Nor would there be an old maid in Great Britain, and all its territories.
For what an odd soul must she be who could not have her twelvemonth's
trial?

In short, a total alteration for the better, in the morals and way of
life in both sexes, must, in a very few years, be the consequence of such
a salutary law.

Who would have expected such a one from me!  I wish the devil owe me not
a spite for it.

The would not the distinction be very pretty, Jack? as in flowers;--such
a gentleman, or such a lady, is an ANNUAL--such a one is a PERENNIAL.

One difficulty, however, as I remember, occurred to me, upon the
probability that a wife might be enceinte, as the lawyers call it. But
thus I obviated it--

That no man should be allowed to marry another woman without his then
wife's consent, till she were brought-to-bed, and he had defrayed all
incident charges; and till it was agreed upon between them whether the
child should be his, her's, or the public's.  The women in this case to
have what I call the coercive option; for I would not have it in the
man's power to be a dog neither.

And, indeed, I gave the turn of the scale in every part of my scheme in
the women's favour: for dearly do I love the sweet rogues.

How infinitely more preferable this my scheme to the polygamy one of the
old patriarchs; who had wives and concubines without number!--I believe
David and Solomon had their hundreds at a time.  Had they not, Jack?

Let me add, that annual parliaments, and annual marriages, are the
projects next my heart.  How could I expatiate upon the benefits that
would arise from both!



LETTER X

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.


Well, but now my plots thicken; and my employment of writing to thee on
this subject will soon come to a conclusion.  For now, having got the
license; and Mrs. Townsend with her tars, being to come to Hampstead next
Wednesday or Thursday; and another letter possibly, or message from Miss
Howe, to inquire how Miss Harlowe does, upon the rustic's report of her
ill health, and to express her wonder that she has not heard form her in
answer to her's on her escape; I must soon blow up the lady, or be blown
up myself.  And so I am preparing, with Lady Betty and my cousin
Montague, to wait upon my beloved with a coach-and-four, or a sett; for
Lady Betty will not stir out with a pair for the world; though but for
two or three miles.  And this is a well-known part of her character.

But as to the arms and crest upon the coach and trappings?

Dost thou not know that a Blunt's must supply her, while her own is new
lining and repairing?  An opportunity she is willing to take now she is
in town.  Nothing of this kind can be done to her mind in the country.
Liveries nearly Lady Betty's.

Thou hast seen Lady Betty Lawrance several times--hast thou not, Belford?

No, never in my life.

But thou hast--and lain with her too; or fame does thee more credit than
thou deservest--Why, Jack, knowest thou not Lady Betty's other name?

Other name!--Has she two?

She has.  And what thinkest thou of Lady Bab. Wallis?

O the devil!

Now thou hast it.  Lady Barbara thou knowest, lifted up in circumstances,
and by pride, never appears or produces herself, but on occasions special
--to pass to men of quality or price, for a duchess, or countess, at
least.  She has always been admired for a grandeur in her air, that few
women of quality can come up to; and never was supposed to be other than
what she passed for; though often and often a paramour for lords.

And who, thinkest thou, is my cousin Montague?

Nay, how should I know?

How indeed!  Why, my little Johanetta Golding, a lively, yet
modest-looking girl, is my cousin Montague.

There, Belford, is an aunt!--There's a cousin!--Both have wit at will.
Both are accustomed to ape quality.--Both are genteelly descended.
Mistresses of themselves, and well educated--yet past pity.--True Spartan
dames; ashamed of nothing but detection--always, therefore, upon their
guard against that.  And in their own conceit, when assuming top parts,
the very quality they ape.

And how dost think I dress them out?--I'll tell thee.

Lady Betty in a rich gold tissue, adorned with jewels of high price.

My cousin Montague in a pale pink, standing on end with silver flowers of
her own working.  Charlotte as well as my beloved is admirable at her
needle.  Not quite so richly jewell'd out as Lady Betty; but ear-rings
and solitaire very valuable, and infinitely becoming.

Johanetta, thou knowest, has a good complexion, a fine neck, and ears
remarkably fine--so has Charlotte.  She is nearly of Charlotte's stature
too.

Laces both, the richest that could be procured.

Thou canst not imagine what a sum the loan of the jewels cost me, though
but for three days.

This sweet girl will half ruin me.  But seest thou not, by this time,
that her reign is short!--It must be so.  And Mrs. Sinclair has already
prepared every thing for her reception once more.


***


Here come the ladies--attended by Susan Morrison, a tenant-farmer's
daughter, as Lady Betty's woman; with her hands before her, and
thoroughly instructed.

How dress advantages women!--especially those who have naturally a
genteel air and turn, and have had education.

Hadst thou seen how they paraded it--Cousin, and Cousin, and Nephew, at
every word; Lady Betty bridling and looking haughtily-condescending.--
Charlotte galanting her fan, and swimming over the floor without touching
it.

How I long to see my niece-elect! cries one--for they are told that we
are not married; and are pleased that I have not put the slight upon them
that they had apprehended from me.

How I long to see my dear cousin that is to be, the other!

Your La'ship, and your La'ship, and an awkward courtesy at every address
--prim Susan Morrison.

Top your parts, ye villains!--You know how nicely I distinguish.  There
will be no passion in this case to blind the judgment, and to help on
meditated delusion, as when you engage with titled sinners.  My charmer
is as cool and as distinguishing, though not quite so learned in her own
sex, as I am.  Your commonly-assumed dignity won't do for me now.  Airs
of superiority, as if born to rank.--But no over-do!--Doubting nothing.
Let not your faces arraign your hearts.

Easy and unaffected!--Your very dresses will give you pride enough.

A little graver, Lady Betty.--More significance, less bridling in your
dignity.

That's the air!  Charmingly hit----Again----You have it.

Devil take you!--Less arrogance.  You are got into airs of young quality.
Be less sensible of your new condition.  People born to dignity command
respect without needing to require it.

Now for your part, Cousin Charlotte!--

Pretty well.  But a little too frolicky that air.--Yet have I prepared my
beloved to expect in you both great vivacity and quality-freedom.

Curse those eyes!--Those glancings will never do.  A down-cast bashful
turn, if you can command it.  Look upon me.  Suppose me now to be my
beloved.

Devil take that leer.  Too significantly arch!--Once I knew you the girl
I would now have you to be.

Sprightly, but not confident, cousin Charlotte!--Be sure forget not to
look down, or aside, when looked at.  When eyes meet eyes, be your's the
retreating ones.  Your face will bear examination.

O Lord! Lord! that so young a creature can so soon forget the innocent
appearance she first charmed by; and which I thought born with you all!--
Five years to ruin what twenty had been building up!  How natural the
latter lesson!  How difficult to regain the former!

A stranger, as I hope to be saved, to the principal arts of your sex!--
Once more, what a devil has your heart to do in your eyes?

Have I not told you, that my beloved is a great observer of the eyes?
She once quoted upon me a text,* which showed me how she came by her
knowledge--Dorcas's were found guilty of treason the first moment she
saw her.


* Eccles. xxvi.  The whoredom of a woman may be known in her haughty
looks and eye-lids.  Watch over an impudent eye, and marvel not if it
trespass against thee.


Once more, suppose me to be my charmer.--Now you are to encounter my
examining eye, and my doubting heart--

That's my dear!

Study that air in the pier-glass!--

Charmingly!--Perfectly right!

Your honours, now, devils!--

Pretty well, Cousin Charlotte, for a young country lady!  Till form
yields to familiarity, you may courtesy low.  You must not be supposed
to have forgot your boarding-school airs.

But too low, too low Lady Betty, for your years and your quality.  The
common fault of your sex will be your danger: aiming to be young too
long!--The devil's in you all, when you judge of yourselves by your
wishes, and by your vanity!  Fifty, in that case, is never more than
fifteen.

Graceful ease, conscious dignity, like that of my charmer, Oh! how hard
to hit!

Both together now--

Charming!--That's the air, Lady Betty!--That's the cue, Cousin Charlotte,
suited to the character of each!--But, once more, be sure to have a guard
upon your eyes.

Never fear, Nephew!--

Never fear, Cousin.

A dram of Barbadoes each--

And now we are gone--



LETTER XI

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
AT MRS. SINCLAIR'S, MONDAY AFTERNOON.


All's right, as heart can wish!--In spite of all objection--in spite of a
reluctance next to faintings--in spite of all foresight, vigilance,
suspicion--once more is the charmer of my soul in her old lodgings!

Now throbs away every pulse!  Now thump, thump, thumps my bounding heart
for something!

But I have not time for the particulars of our management.

My beloved is now directing some of her clothes to be packed up--never
more to enter this house!  Nor ever more will she, I dare say, when once
again out of it!

Yet not so much as a condition of forgiveness!--The Harlowe-spirited
fair-one will not deserve my mercy!--She will wait for Miss Howe's next
letter; and then, if she find a difficulty in her new schemes, [Thank her
for nothing,]--will--will what?  Why even then will take time to
consider, whether I am to be forgiven, or for ever rejected.  An
indifference that revives in my heart the remembrance of a thousand of
the like nature.--And yet Lady Betty and Miss Montague, [a man would be
tempted to think, Jack, that they wish her to provoke my vengeance,]
declare, that I ought to be satisfied with such a proud suspension!

They are entirely attached to her.  Whatever she says, is, must be,
gospel!  They are guarantees for her return to Hampstead this night.
They are to go back with her.  A supper bespoken by Lady Betty at Mrs.
Moore's.  All the vacant apartments there, by my permission, (for I had
engaged them for a month certain,) to be filled with them and their
attendants, for a week at least, or till they can prevail upon the dear
perverse, as they hope they shall, to restore me to her favour, and to
accompany Lady Betty to Oxfordshire.

The dear creature has thus far condescended--that she will write to Miss
Howe and acquaint her with the present situation of things.

If she write, I shall see what she writes.  But I believe she will have
other employment soon.

Lady Betty is sure, she tells her, that she shall prevail upon her to
forgive me; though she dares say, that I deserve not forgiveness.  Lady
Betty is too delicate to inquire strictly into the nature of my offence.
But it must be an offence against herself, against Miss Montague, against
the virtuous of the whole sex, or it could not be so highly resented.
Yet she will not leave her till she forgive me, and till she see our
nuptials privately celebrated.  Mean time, as she approves of her uncle's
expedient, she will address her as already my wife before strangers.

Stedman, her solicitor, may attend her for orders in relation to her
chancery affair, at Hampstead.  Not one hour they can be favoured with,
will they lose from the company and conversation of so dear, so charming
a new relation.

Hard then if she had not obliged them with her company in their
coach-and-four, to and from their cousin Leeson's, who longed, (as they
themselves had done,) to see a lady so justly celebrated.

'How will Lord M. be raptured when he sees her, and can salute her as his
niece!

'How will Lady Sarah bless herself!--She will now think her loss of the
dear daughter she mourns for happily supplied!'

Miss Montague dwells upon every word that falls from her lips.  She
perfectly adores her new cousin--'For her cousin she must be.  And her
cousin will she call her!  She answers for equal admiration in her sister
Patty.

'Ay, cry I, (whispering loud enough for her to hear,) how will my cousin
Patty's dove's eyes glisten and run over, on the very first interview!--
So gracious, so noble, so unaffected a dear creature!'

'What a happy family,' chorus we all, 'will our's be!'

These and such like congratulatory admirations every hour repeated.  Her
modesty hurt by the ecstatic praises:--'Her graces are too natural to
herself for her to be proud of them: but she must be content to be
punished for excellencies that cast a shade upon the most excellent!'

In short, we are here, as at Hampstead, all joy and rapture--all of us
except my beloved; in whose sweet face, [her almost fainting reluctance
to re-enter these doors not overcome,] reigns a kind of anxious serenity!
--But how will even that be changed in a few hours!

Methinks I begin to pity the half-apprehensive beauty!--But avaunt, thou
unseasonably-intruding pity!  Thou hast more than once already well nigh
undone me!  And, adieu, reflection!  Begone, consideration!  and
commiseration!  I dismiss ye all, for at least a week to come!--But
remembered her broken word!  Her flight, when my fond soul was meditating
mercy to her!--Be remembered her treatment of me in her letter on her
escape to Hampstead!  Her Hampstead virulence!  What is it she ought not
to expect from an unchained Beelzebub, and a plotting villain?

Be her preference of the single life to me also remembered!--That she
despises me!--That she even refuses to be my WIFE!--A proud Lovelace to
be denied a wife!--To be more proudly rejected by a daughter of the
Harlowes!--The ladies of my own family, [she thinks them the ladies of
my family,] supplicating in vain for her returning favour to their
despised kinsman, and taking laws from her still prouder punctilio!

Be the execrations of her vixen friend likewise remembered, poured out
upon me from her representations, and thereby made her own execrations!

Be remembered still more particularly the Townsend plot, set on foot
between them, and now, in a day or two, ready to break out; and the
sordid threatening thrown out against me by that little fury!

Is not this the crisis for which I have been long waiting?  Shall
Tomlinson, shall these women be engaged; shall so many engines be set
at work, at an immense expense, with infinite contrivance; and all to
no purpose?

Is not this the hour of her trial--and in her, of the trial of the virtue
of her whole sex, so long premeditated, so long threatened?--Whether her
frost be frost indeed?  Whether her virtue be principle?  Whether, if
once subdued, she will not be always subdued?  And will she not want the
crown of her glory, the proof of her till now all-surpassing excellence,
if I stop short of the ultimate trial?

Now is the end of purposes long over-awed, often suspended, at hand.  And
need I go throw the sins of her cursed family into the too-weighty scale?

[Abhorred be force!--be the thoughts of force!--There's no triumph over
the will in force!]  This I know I have said.*  But would I not have
avoided it, if I could?  Have I not tried every other method?  And have I
any other resource left me?  Can she resent the last outrage more than
she has resented a fainter effort?--And if her resentments run ever so
high, cannot I repair by matrimony?--She will not refuse me, I know,
Jack: the haughty beauty will not refuse me, when her pride of being
corporally inviolate is brought down; when she can tell no tales, but
when, (be her resistance what it will,) even her own sex will suspect a
yielding in resistance; and when that modesty, which may fill her bosom
with resentment, will lock up her speech.


* Vol. IV. Letter XLVIII.


But how know I, that I have not made my own difficulties?  Is she not a
woman!  What redress lies for a perpetuated evil?  Must she not live?
Her piety will secure her life.--And will not time be my friend!  What,
in a word, will be her behaviour afterwards?--She cannot fly me!--She
must forgive me--and as I have often said, once forgiven, will be for
ever forgiven.

Why then should this enervating pity unsteel my foolish heart?

It shall not.  All these things will I remember; and think of nothing
else, in order to keep up a resolution, which the women about me will
have it I shall be still unable to hold.

I'll teach the dear, charming creature to emulate me in contrivance; I'll
teach her to weave webs and plots against her conqueror!  I'll show her,
that in her smuggling schemes she is but a spider compared to me, and
that she has all this time been spinning only a cobweb!


***


What shall we do now! we are immersed in the depth of grief and
apprehension!  How ill do women bear disappointment!--Set upon going to
Hampstead, and upon quitting for ever a house she re-entered with
infinite reluctance; what things she intended to take with her ready
packed up, herself on tiptoe to be gone, and I prepared to attend her
thither; she begins to be afraid that she shall not go this night; and in
grief and despair has flung herself into her old apartment; locked
herself in; and through the key-hole Dorcas sees her on her knees,
praying, I suppose, for a safe deliverance.

And from what? and wherefore these agonizing apprehensions?

Why, here, this unkind Lady Betty, with the dear creature's knowledge,
though to her concern, and this mad-headed cousin Montague without it,
while she was employed in directing her package, have hurried away in the
coach to their own lodgings, [only, indeed, to put up some night-clothes,
and so forth, in order to attend their sweet cousin to Hampstead;] and,
no less to my surprise than her's, are not yet returned.

I have sent to know the meaning of it.

In a great hurry of spirits, she would have had me to go myself.  Hardly
any pacifying her!  The girl, God bless her! is wild with her own idle
apprehensions!  What is she afraid of?

I curse them both for their delay.  My tardy villain, how he stays!
Devil fetch them! let them send their coach, and we'll go without them.
In her hearing I bid the fellow tell them so.  Perhaps he stays to bring
the coach, if any thing happens to hinder the ladies from attending my
beloved this night.


***


Devil take them, again say I!  They promised too they would not stay,
because it was but two nights ago that a chariot was robbed at the foot
of Hampstead-hill, which alarmed my fair-one when told of it!

Oh! here's Lady Betty's servant, with a billet.


TO ROBERT LOVELACE, ESQ.
MONDAY NIGHT.

Excuse us, my dear Nephew, I beseech you, to my dearest kinswoman.  One
night cannot break squares: for here Miss Montague has been taken
violently ill with three fainting fits, one after another.  The hurry of
her joy, I believe, to find your dear lady so much surpass all
expectations, [never did family love, you know, reign so strong as among
us,] and the too eager desire she had to attend her, have occasioned it!
For she has but weak spirits, poor girl! well as she looks.

If she be better, we will certainly go with you tomorrow morning, after
we have breakfasted with her, at your lodgings.  But whether she be, or
not, I will do myself the pleasure to attend your lady to Hampstead; and
will be with you for that purpose about nine in the morning.  With due
compliments to your most worthily beloved, I am

Your's affectionately,
ELIZAB. LAWRANCE.


***


Faith and troth, Jack, I know not what to do with myself; for here, just
now having sent in the above note by Dorcas, out came my beloved with it
in her hand, in a fit of phrensy!--true, by my soul!

She had indeed complained of her head all the evening.

Dorcas ran to me, out of breath, to tell me, that her lady was coming in
some strange way; but she followed her so quick, that the frighted wench
had not time to say in what way.

It seems, when she read the billet--Now indeed, said she, am I a lost
creature!  O the poor Clarissa Harlowe!

She tore off her head-clothes; inquired where I was; and in she came, her
shining tresses flowing about her neck; her ruffles torn, and hanging in
tatters about her snowy hands, with her arms spread out--her eyes wildly
turned, as if starting from their orbits--down sunk she at my feet, as
soon as she approached me; her charming bosom heaving to her uplifted
face; and clasping her arms about my knees, Dear Lovelace, said she, if
ever--if ever--if ever--and, unable to speak another word, quitting her
clasping hold--down--prostrate on the floor sunk she, neither in a fit
nor out of one.

I was quite astonished.--All my purposes suspended for a few moments, I
knew neither what to say, nor what to do.  But, recollecting myself, am I
again, thought I, in a way to be overcome, and made a fool of!--If I now
recede, I am gone for ever.

I raised her; but down she sunk, as if quite disjointed--her limbs
failing her--yet not in a fit neither.  I never heard of or saw such a
dear unaccountable; almost lifeless, and speechless too for a few
moments; what must her apprehensions be at that moment?--And for what?--
An high-notioned dear soul!--Pretty ignorance!--thought I.

Never having met with so sincere, so unquestionable a repugnance, I was
staggered--I was confounded--yet how should I know that it would be so
till I tried?--And how, having proceeded thus far, could I stop, were I
not to have had the women to goad me on, and to make light of
circumstances, which they pretended to be better judges of than I?

I lifted her, however, into a chair, and in words of disordered passion,
told her, all her fears were needless--wondered at them--begged of her to
be pacified--besought her reliance on my faith and honour--and revowed
all my old vows, and poured forth new ones.

At last, with a heart-breaking sob, I see, I see, Mr. Lovelace, in broken
sentences she spoke--I see, I see--that at last--I am ruined!--Ruined, if
your pity--let me implore your pity!--and down on her bosom, like a
half-broken-stalked lily top-heavy with the overcharging dews of the
morning, sunk her head, with a sigh that went to my heart.

All I could think of to re-assure her, when a little recovered, I said.

Why did I not send for their coach, as I had intimated?  It might return
in the morning for the ladies.

I had actually done so, I told her, on seeing her strange uneasiness.
But it was then gone to fetch a doctor for Miss Montague, lest his
chariot should not be so ready.

Ah!  Lovelace! said she, with a doubting face; anguish in her imploring
eye.

Lady Betty would think it very strange, I told her, if she were to know
it was so disagreeable to her to stay one night for her company in the
house where she had passed so many.

She called me names upon this--she had called me names before.--I was
patient.

Let her go to Lady Betty's lodgings then; directly go; if the person I
called Lady Betty was really Lady Betty.

If, my dear!  Good Heaven!  What a villain does that IF show you believe
me to be!

I cannot help it--I beseech you once more, let me go to Mrs. Leeson's, if
that IF ought not to be said.

Then assuming a more resolute spirit--I will go!  I will inquire my way!
--I will go by myself!--and would have rushed by me.

I folded my arms about her to detain her; pleading the bad way I heard
poor Charlotte was in; and what a farther concern her impatience, if she
went, would give to poor Charlotte.

She would believe nothing I said, unless I would instantly order a coach,
(since she was not to have Lady Betty's, nor was permitted to go to Mrs.
Leeson's,) and let her go in it to Hampstead, late as it was, and all
alone, so much the better; for in the house of people of whom Lady Betty,
upon inquiry, had heard a bad character, [Dropt foolishly this, by my
prating new relation, in order to do credit to herself, by depreciating
others,] every thing, and every face, looking with so much meaning
vileness, as well as my own, [thou art still too sensible, thought I, my
charmer!] she was resolved not to stay another night.

Dreading what might happen as to her intellects, and being very
apprehensive that she might possibly go through a great deal before
morning, (though more violent she could not well be with the worst she
dreaded,) I humoured her, and ordered Will. to endeavour to get a coach
directly, to carry us to Hampstead; I cared not at what price.

Robbers, with whom I would have terrified her, she feared not--I was all
her fear, I found; and this house her terror: for I saw plainly that she
now believed that Lady Betty and Miss Montague were both impostors.

But her mistrust is a little of the latest to do her service!

And, O Jack, the rage of love, the rage of revenge is upon me! by turns
they tear me!  The progress already made--the women's instigations--the
power I shall have to try her to the utmost, and still to marry her, if
she be not to be brought to cohabitation--let me perish, Belford, if she
escape me now!


***


Will. is not yet come back.  Near eleven.


***


Will. is this moment returned.  No coach to be got, either for love or
money.

Once more she urges--to Mrs. Leeson's, let me go, Lovelace!  Good
Lovelace, let me go to Mrs. Leeson's?  What is Miss Montague's illness
to my terror?---For the Almighty's sake, Mr. Lovelace!--her hands
clasped.

O my angel!  What a wildness is this!  Do you know, do you see, my
dearest life, what appearances your causeless apprehensions have given
you?--Do you know it is past eleven o'clock?

Twelve, one, two, three, four--any hour, I care not--If you mean me
honourably, let me go out of this hated house!

Thou'lt observe, Belford, that though this was written afterwards, yet,
(as in other places,) I write it as it was spoken and happened, as if I
had retired to put down every sentence spoken.  I know thou likest this
lively present-tense manner, as it is one of my peculiars.

Just as she had repeated the last words, If you mean me honourably, let
me go out of this hated house, in came Mrs. Sinclair, in a great ferment
--And what, pray, Madam, has this house done to you?  Mr. Lovelace, you
have known me some time; and, if I have not the niceness of this lady, I
hope I do not deserve to be treated thus!

She set her huge arms akimbo: Hoh!  Madam, let me tell you that I am
amazed at your freedoms with my character!  And, Mr. Lovelace, [holding
up, and violently shaking her head,] if you are a gentleman, and a man of
honour----

Having never before seen any thing but obsequiousness in this woman,
little as she liked her, she was frighted at her masculine air, and
fierce look--God help me! cried she--what will become of me now!  Then,
turning her head hither and thither, in a wild kind of amaze.  Whom have
I for a protector!  What will become of me now!

I will be your protector, my dearest love!--But indeed you are
uncharitably severe upon poor Mrs. Sinclair!  Indeed you are!--She is a
gentlewoman born, and the relict of a man of honour; and though left in
such circumstance as to oblige her to let lodgings, yet would she scorn
to be guilty of a wilful baseness.

I hope so--it may be so--I may be mistaken--but--but there is no crime, I
presume, no treason, to say I don't like her house.

The old dragon straddled up to her, with her arms kemboed again--her
eye-brows erect, like the bristles upon a hog's back, and, scouling over
her shortened nose, more than half-hid her ferret eyes.  Her mouth was
distorted.  She pouted out her blubber-lips, as if to bellows up wind and
sputter into her horse-nostrils; and her chin was curdled, and more than
usually prominent with passion.

With two Hoh-Madams she accosted the frighted fair-one; who, terrified,
caught hold of my sleeve.

I feared she would fall into fits; and, with a look of indignation, told
Mrs. Sinclair that these apartments were mine; and I could not imagine
what she meant, either by listening to what passed between me and my
spouse, or to come in uninvited; and still more I wondered at her giving
herself these strange liberties.

I may be to blame, Jack, for suffering this wretch to give herself these
airs; but her coming in was without my orders.

The old beldam, throwing herself into a chair, fell a blubbering and
exclaiming.  And the pacifying of her, and endeavouring to reconcile the
lady to her, took up till near one o'clock.

And thus, between terror, and the late hour, and what followed, she was
diverted from the thoughts of getting out of the house to Mrs. Leeson's,
or any where else.



LETTER XII


MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
TUESDAY MORNING, JUNE 13.


And now, Belford, I can go no farther.  The affair is over.  Clarissa
lives.  And I am

Your humble servant,
R. LOVELACE.


[The whole of this black transaction is given by the injured lady to Miss
Howe, in her subsequent letters, dated Thursday, July 6.  See Letters
LXVII. LXVIII. LXIX.]



LETTER XIII

MR. BELFORD, TO ROBERT LOVELACE, ESQ.
WATFORD, WEDN. JAN. 14.


O thou savage-hearted monster!  What work hast thou made in one guilty
hour, for a whole age of repentance!

I am inexpressibly concerned at the fate of this matchless lady!  She
could not have fallen into the hands of any other man breathing, and
suffered as she has done with thee.

I had written a great part of another long letter to try to soften thy
flinty heart in her favour; for I thought it but too likely that thou
shouldst succeed in getting her back again to the accursed woman's.  But
I find it would have been too late, had I finished it, and sent it away.
Yet cannot I forbear writing, to urge thee to make the only amends thou
now canst make her, by a proper use of the license thou hast obtained.

Poor, poor lady!  It is a pain to me that I ever saw her.  Such an adorer
of virtue to be sacrificed to the vilest of her sex; and thou their
implement in the devil's hand, for a purpose so base, so ungenerous, so
inhumane!--Pride thyself, O cruellest of men! in this reflection; and
that thy triumph over a woman, who for thy sake was abandoned of every
friend she had in the world, was effected; not by advantages taken of her
weakness and credulity; but by the blackest artifice; after a long course
of studied deceits had been tried to no purpose.

I can tell thee, it is well either for thee or for me, that I am not the
brother of the lady.  Had I been her brother, her violation must have
been followed by the blood of one of us.

Excuse me, Lovelace; and let not the lady fare the worse for my concern
for her.  And yet I have but one other motive to ask thy excuse; and that
is, because I owe to thy own communicative pen the knowledge I have of
thy barbarous villany, since thou mightest, if thou wouldst, have passed
it upon me for a common seduction.

CLARISSA LIVES, thou sayest.  That she does is my wonder: and these words
show that thou thyself (though thou couldst, nevertheless, proceed)
hardly expectedst she would have survived the outrage.  What must have
been the poor lady's distress (watchful as she had been over her honour)
when dreadful certainty took place of cruel apprehension!--And yet a man
may guess what must have been, by that which thou paintest, when she
suspected herself tricked, deserted, and betrayed, by the pretended
ladies.

That thou couldst behold her phrensy on this occasion, and her
half-speechless, half-fainting prostration at thy feet, and yet retain thy
evil purposes, will hardly be thought credible, even by those who know
thee, if they have seen her.

Poor, poor lady!  With such noble qualities as would have adorned the
most exalted married life, to fall into the hands of the only man in the
world, who could have treated her as thou hast treated her!--And to let
loose the old dragon, as thou properly callest her, upon the
before-affrighted innocent, what a barbarity was that!  What a poor piece
of barbarity! in order to obtain by terror, what thou dispairedst to gain
by love, though supported by stratagems the most insidious!

O LOVELACE!  LOVELACE! had I doubted it before, I should now be
convinced, that there must be a WORLD AFTER THIS, to do justice to
injured merit, and to punish barbarous perfidy!  Could the divine
SOCRATES, and the divine CLARISSA, otherwise have suffered?

But let me, if possible, for one moment, try to forget this villanous
outrage on the most excellent of women.

I have business here which will hold me yet a few days; and then perhaps
I shall quit this house for ever.

I have had a solemn and tedious time of it.  I should never have known
that I had half the respect I really find I had for the old gentleman,
had I not so closely, at his earnest desire, attended him, and been a
witness of the tortures he underwent.

This melancholy occasion may possibly have contributed to humanize me:
but surely I never could have been so remorseless a caitiff as thou hast
been, to a woman of half this lady's excellence.

But pr'ythee, dear Lovelace, if thou'rt a man, and not a devil, resolve,
out of hand, to repair thy sin of ingratitude, by conferring upon thyself
the highest honour thou canst receive, in making her lawfully thine.

But if thou canst not prevail upon thyself to do her this justice, I
think I should not scruple a tilt with thee, [an everlasting rupture at
least must follow] if thou sacrificest her to the accursed women.

Thou art desirous to know what advantage I reap by my uncle's demise.  I
do not certainly know; for I have not been so greedily solicitous on this
subject as some of the kindred have been, who ought to have shown more
decency, as I have told them, and suffered the corpse to have been cold
before they had begun their hungry inquiries.  But, by what I gathered
from the poor man's talk to me, who oftener than I wished touched upon
the subject, I deem it will be upwards of 5000£. in cash, and in the
funds, after all legacies paid, besides the real estate, which is a clear
1000£. a-year.

I wish, from my heart, thou wert a money-lover!  Were the estate to be of
double the value, thou shouldst have it every shilling; only upon one
condition [for my circumstances before were as easy as I wish them to be
while I am single]--that thou wouldst permit me the honour of being this
fatherless lady's father, as it is called, at the altar.

Think of this! my dear Lovelace! be honest: and let me present thee with
the brightest jewel that man ever possessed; and then, body and soul,
wilt thou bind to thee for ever thy

BELFORD.



LETTER XIV

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
THURSDAY, JUNE 15.


Let me alone, you great dog, you!--let me alone!--have I heard a lesser
boy, his coward arms held over his head and face, say to a bigger, who
was pommeling him, for having run away with his apple, his orange, or his
ginger-bread.

So say I to thee, on occasion of thy severity to thy poor friend, who, as
thou ownest, has furnished thee (ungenerous as thou art!) with the
weapons thou brandishest so fearfully against him.--And to what purpose,
when the mischief is done? when, of consequence, the affair is
irretrievable? and when a CLARISSA could not move me?

Well, but, after all, I must own, that there is something very singular
in this lady's case: and, at times, I cannot help regretting that ever I
attempted her; since not one power either of body or soul could be moved
in my favour; and since, to use the expression of the philosopher, on a
much graver occasion, there is no difference to be found between the
skull of King Philip and that of another man.

But people's extravagant notions of things alter not facts, Belford: and,
when all's done, Miss Clarissa Harlowe has but run the fate of a thousand
others of her sex--only that they did not set such a romantic value upon
what they call their honour; that's all.

And yet I will allow thee this--that if a person sets a high value upon
any thing, be it ever such a trifle in itself, or in the eye of others,
the robbing of that person of it is not a trifle to him.  Take the matter
in this light, I own I have done wrong, great wrong, to this admirable
creature.

But have I not known twenty and twenty of the sex, who have seemed to
carry their notions of virtue high; yet, when brought to the test, have
abated of their severity?  And how should we be convinced that any of
them are proof till they are tried?

A thousand times have I said, that I never yet met with such a woman as
this.  If I had, I hardly ever should have attempted Miss Clarissa
Harlowe.  Hitherto she is all angel: and was not that the point which at
setting out I proposed to try?*  And was not cohabitation ever my darling
view?  And am I not now, at last, in the high road to it?--It is true,
that I have nothing to boast of as to her will.  The very contrary.  But
now are we come to the test, whether she cannot be brought to make the
best of an irreparable evil.  If she exclaim, [she has reason to exclaim,
and I will sit down with patience by the hour together to hear her
exclamations, till she is tired of them,] she will then descend to
expostulation perhaps: expostulation will give me hope: expostulation
will show that she hates me not.  And, if she hate me not, she will
forgive: and, if she now forgive, then will all be over; and she will be
mine upon my own terms: and it shall then be the whole study of my future
life to make her happy.


* See Vol. III. Letter XVIII.


So, Belford, thou seest that I have journeyed on to this stage [indeed,
through infinite mazes, and as infinite remorses] with one determined
point in view from the first.  To thy urgent supplication then, that I
will do her grateful justice by marriage, let me answer in Matt. Prior's
two lines on his hoped-for auditorship; as put into the mouths of his St.
John and Harley;

      ---Let that be done, which Matt. doth say.
      YEA, quoth the Earl--BUT NOT TO-DAY.

Thou seest, Jack, that I make no resolutions, however, against doing her,
one time or other, the wished-for justice, even were I to succeed in my
principal view, cohabitation.  And of this I do assure thee, that, if I
ever marry, it must, it shall be Miss Clarissa Harlowe.--Nor is her
honour at all impaired with me, by what she has so far suffered: but the
contrary.  She must only take care that, if she be at last brought to
forgive me, she show me that her Lovelace is the only man on earth whom
she could have forgiven on the like occasion.

But ah, Jack! what, in the mean time, shall I do with this admirable
creature?  At present--[I am loth to say it--but, at present] she is
quite stupified.

I had rather, methinks, she should have retained all her active powers,
though I had suffered by her nails and her teeth, than that she should be
sunk into such a state of absolute--insensibility (shall I call it?) as
she has been in every since Tuesday morning.  Yet, as she begins a little
to revive, and now-and-then to call names, and to exclaim, I dread almost
to engage with the anguish of a spirit that owes its extraordinary
agitations to a niceness that has no example either in ancient or modern
story.  For, after all, what is there in her case that should stupify
such a glowing, such a blooming charmer?--Excess of grief, excess of
terror, have made a person's hair stand on end, and even (as we have
read) changed the colour of it.  But that it should so stupify, as to
make a person, at times, insensible to those imaginary wrongs, which
would raise others from stupifaction, is very surprising!

But I will leave this subject, least it should make me too grave.

I was yesterday at Hampstead, and discharged all obligations there, with
no small applause.  I told them that the lady was now as happy as myself:
and that is no great untruth; for I am not altogether so, when I allow
myself to think.

Mrs. Townsend, with her tars, had not been then there.  I told them what
I would have them say to her, if she came.

Well, but, after all [how many after-all's have I?] I could be very
grave, were I to give way to it.--The devil take me for a fool!  What's
the matte with me, I wonder!--I must breathe a fresher air for a few
days.

But what shall I do with this admirable creature the while?--Hang me, if
I know!--For, if I stir, the venomous spider of this habitation will want
to set upon the charming fly, whose silken wings are already so entangled
in my enormous web, that she cannot move hand or foot: for so much has
grief stupified her, that she is at present destitute of will, as she
always seemed to be of desire.  I must not therefore think of leaving her
yet for two days together.



LETTER XV

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.


I have just now had a specimen of what the resentment of this dear
creature will be when quite recovered: an affecting one!--For entering
her apartment after Dorcas; and endeavouring to soothe and pacify her
disordered mind; in the midst of my blandishments, she held up to Heaven,
in a speechless agony, the innocent license (which she has in her own
power); as the poor distressed Catalans held up their English treaty,
on an occasion that keeps the worst of my actions in countenance.

She seemed about to call down vengeance upon me; when, happily the leaden
god, in pity to her trembling Lovelace, waved over her half-drowned eyes
his somniferous want, and laid asleep the fair exclaimer, before she
could go half through with her intended imprecation.

Thou wilt guess, by what I have written, that some little art has been
made use of: but it was with a generous design (if thou'lt allow me the
word on such an occasion) in order to lessen the too-quick sense she was
likely to have of what she was to suffer.  A contrivance I never had
occasion for before, and had not thought of now, if Mrs. Sinclair had not
proposed it to me: to whom I left the management of it: and I have done
nothing but curse her ever since, lest the quantity should have for ever
dampened her charming intellects.

Hence my concern--for I think the poor lady ought not to have been so
treated.  Poor lady, did I say?--What have I to do with thy creeping
style?--But have not I the worst of it; since her insensibility has made
me but a thief to my own joys?

I did not intend to tell thee of this little innocent trick; for such I
designed it to be; but that I hate disingenuousness: to thee, especially:
and as I cannot help writing in a more serious vein than usual, thou
wouldst perhaps, had I not hinted the true cause, have imagined that I
was sorry for the fact itself: and this would have given thee a good deal
of trouble in scribbling dull persuasives to repair by matrimony; and me
in reading thy cruel nonsense.  Besides, one day or other, thou mightest,
had I not confessed it, have heard of it in an aggravated manner; and I
know thou hast such an high opinion of this lady's virtue, that thou
wouldst be disappointed, if thou hadst reason to think that she was
subdued by her own consent, or any the least yielding in her will.  And
so is she beholden to me in some measure, that, at the expense of my
honour, she may so justly form a plea, which will entirely salve her's.

And now is the whole secret out.

Thou wilt say I am a horrid fellow!--As the lady does, that I am the
unchained Beelzebub, and a plotting villain: and as this is what you both
said beforehand, and nothing worse can be said, I desire, if thou wouldst
not have me quite serious with thee, and that I should think thou meanest
more by thy tilting hint than I am willing to believe thou dost, that
thou wilt forbear thy invectives: For is not the thing done?--Can it be
helped?--And must I not now try to make the best of it?--And the rather
do I enjoin to make thee this, and inviolable secrecy; because I begin
to think that my punishment will be greater than the fault, were it to be
only from my own reflection.



LETTER XVI

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
FRIDAY, JUNE 16.


I am sorry to hear of thy misfortune; but hope thou wilt not long lie by
it.  Thy servant tells me what narrow escape thou hadst with thy neck, I
wish it may not be ominous: but I think thou seemest not to be in so
enterprising a way as formerly; and yet, merry or sad, thou seest a
rake's neck is always in danger, if not from the hangman, from his own
horse.  But, 'tis a vicious toad, it seems; and I think thou shouldst
never venture upon his back again; for 'tis a plaguy thing for rider and
horse both to be vicious.

The fellow tells me, thou desirest me to continue to write to thee in
order to divert thy chagrin on thy forced confinement: but how can I
think it in my power to divert, when my subject is not pleasing to
myself?

Caesar never knew what it was to be hipped, I will call it, till he
came to be what Pompey was; that is to say, till he arrived at the
height of his ambition: nor did thy Lovelace know what it was to be
gloomy, till he had completed his wishes upon the most charming
creature in the world.

And yet why say I completed? when the will, the consent, is
wanting--and I have still views before me of obtaining that?

Yet I could almost join with thee in the wish, which thou sendest me up
by thy servant, unfriendly as it is, that I had had thy misfortune
before Monday night last: for here, the poor lady has run into a
contrary extreme to that I told thee of in my last: for now is she as
much too lively, as before she was too stupid; and 'bating that she has
pretty frequent lucid intervals, would be deemed raving mad, and I
should be obliged to confine her.

I am most confoundedly disturbed about it: for I begin to fear that her
intellects are irreparably hurt.

Who the devil could have expected such strange effects from a cause so
common and so slight?

But these high-souled and high-sensed girls, who had set up for shining
lights and examples to the rest of the sex, are with such difficulty
brought down to the common standard, that a wise man, who prefers his
peace of mind to his glory, in subduing one of that exalted class,
would have nothing to say to them.

I do all in my power to quiet her spirits, when I force myself into her
presence.

I go on, begging pardon one minute; and vowing truth and honour another.

I would at first have persuaded her, and offered to call witnesses to
the truth of it, that we were actually married.  Though the license was
in her hands, I thought the assertion might go down in her disorder;
and charming consequences I hoped would follow.  But this would not
do.--

I therefore gave up that hope: and now I declare to her, that it is my
resolution to marry her, the moment her uncle Harlowe informs me that
he will grace the ceremony with his presence.

But she believes nothing I say; nor, (whether in her senses, or not)
bears me with patience in her sight.

I pity her with all my soul; and I curse myself, when she is in her
wailing fits, and when I apprehend that intellects, so charming, are
for ever damped.

But more I curse these women, who put me upon such an expedient!  Lord!
Lord! what a hand have I made of it!--And all for what?

Last night, for the first time since Monday night, she got to her pen
and ink; but she pursues her writing with such eagerness and hurry, as
show too evidently her discomposure.

I hope, however, that this employment will help to calm her spirits.


***


Just now Dorcas tells me, that what she writes she tears, and throws
the paper in fragments under the table, either as not knowing what she
does, or disliking it: then gets up, wrings her hands, weeps, and
shifts her seat all round the room: then returns to her table, sits
down, and writes again.


***


One odd letter, as I may call it, Dorcas has this moment given me from
her--Carry this, said she, to the vilest of men.  Dorcas, a toad,
brought it, without any further direction to me.  I sat down, intending
(though 'tis pretty long) to give thee a copy of it: but, for my life,
I cannot; 'tis so extravagant.  And the original is too much an
original to let it go out of my hands.

But some of the scraps and fragments, as either torn through, or flung
aside, I will copy, for the novelty of the thing, and to show thee how
her mind works now she is in the whimsical way.  Yet I know I am still
furnishing thee with new weapons against myself.  But spare thy comments.
My own reflections render them needless.  Dorcas thinks her lady will
ask for them: so wishes to have them to lay again under the table.

By the first thou'lt guess that I have told her that Miss Howe is very
ill, and can't write; that she may account the better for not having
received the letter designed for her.


PAPER I
(Torn in two pieces.)


MY DEAREST MISS HOWE,

O what dreadful, dreadful things have I to tell you!  But yet I cannot
tell you neither.  But say, are you really ill, as a vile, vile
creature informs me you are?

But he never yet told me truth, and I hope has not in this: and yet, if
it were not true, surely I should have heard from you before now!--But
what have I to do to upbraid?--You may well be tired of me!--And if you
are, I can forgive you; for I am tired of myself: and all my own
relations were tired of me long before you were.

How good you have always been to me, mine own dear Anna Howe!--But how
I ramble!

I sat down to say a great deal--my heart was full--I did not know what
to say first--and thought, and grief, and confusion, and (O my poor
head) I cannot tell what--and thought, and grief and confusion, came
crowding so thick upon me; one would be first; another would be first;
all would be first; so I can write nothing at all.--Only that, whatever
they have done to me, I cannot tell; but I am no longer what I was-in
any one thing did I say?  Yes, but I am; for I am still, and I ever
will be,

Your true----


Plague on it!  I can write no more of this eloquent nonsense myself;
which rather shows a raised, than a quenched, imagination: but Dorcas
shall transcribe the others in separate papers, as written by the
whimsical charmer: and some time hence when all is over, and I can
better bear to read them, I may ask thee for a sight of them.  Preserve
them, therefore; for we often look back with pleasure even upon the
heaviest griefs, when the cause of them is removed.


PAPER II
(Scratch'd through, and thrown under the table.)


--And can you, my dear, honoured Papa, resolve for ever to reprobate
your poor child?--But I am sure you would not, if you knew what she has
suffered since her unhappy--And will nobody plead for your poor suffering
girl?--No one good body?--Why then, dearest Sir, let it be an act of your
own innate goodness, which I have so much experienced, and so much
abused.  I don't presume to think you should receive me--No, indeed!--My
name is--I don't know what my name is!--I never dare to wish to come into
your family again!--But your heavy curse, my Papa--Yes, I will call you
Papa, and help yourself as you can--for you are my own dear Papa, whether
you will or not--and though I am an unworthy child--yet I am your child--


PAPER III


A Lady took a great fancy to a young lion, or a bear, I forget
which--but a bear, or a tiger, I believe it was.  It was made her a
present of when a whelp.  She fed it with her own hand: she nursed up
the wicked cub with great tenderness; and would play with it without
fear or apprehension of danger: and it was obedient to all her commands:
and its tameness, as she used to boast, increased with its growth; so
that, like a lap-dog, it would follow her all over the house.  But mind
what followed: at last, some how, neglecting to satisfy its hungry maw,
or having otherwise disobliged it on some occasion, it resumed its
nature; and on a sudden fell upon her, and tore her in pieces.--And who
was most to blame, I pray?  The brute, or the lady?  The lady, surely!--
For what she did was out of nature, out of character, at least: what it
did was in its own nature.


PAPER IV


How art thou now humbled in the dust, thou proud Clarissa Harlowe!
Thou that never steppedst out of thy father's house but to be admired!
Who wert wont to turn thine eye, sparkling with healthful life, and
self-assurance, to different objects at once as thou passedst, as if
(for so thy penetrating sister used to say) to plume thyself upon the
expected applauses of all that beheld thee!  Thou that usedst to go to
rest satisfied with the adulations paid thee in the past day, and couldst
put off every thing but thy vanity!---


PAPER V


Rejoice not now, my Bella, my Sister, my Friend; but pity the humbled
creature, whose foolish heart you used to say you beheld through the thin
veil of humility which covered it.

It must have been so!  My fall had not else been permitted--

You penetrated my proud heart with the jealousy of an elder sister's
searching eye.

You knew me better than I knew myself.

Hence your upbraidings and your chidings, when I began to totter.

But forgive now those vain triumphs of my heart.

I thought, poor, proud wretch that I was, that what you said was owing to
your envy.

I thought I could acquit my intention of any such vanity.

I was too secure in the knowledge I thought I had of my own heart.

My supposed advantages became a snare to me.

And what now is the end of all?--


PAPER VI


What now is become of the prospects of a happy life, which once I thought
opening before me?--Who now shall assist in the solemn preparations?  Who
now shall provide the nuptial ornaments, which soften and divert the
apprehensions of the fearful virgin?  No court now to be paid to my
smiles!  No encouraging compliments to inspire thee with hope of laying a
mind not unworthy of thee under obligation!  No elevation now for
conscious merit, and applauded purity, to look down from on a prostrate
adorer, and an admiring world, and up to pleased and rejoicing parents
and relations!


PAPER VII


Thou pernicious caterpillar, that preyest upon the fair leaf of virgin
fame, and poisonest those leaves which thou canst not devour!

Thou fell blight, thou eastern blast, thou overspreading mildew, that
destroyest the early promises of the shining year! that mockest the
laborious toil, and blastest the joyful hopes, of the painful husbandman!

Thou fretting moth, that corruptest the fairest garment!

Thou eating canker-worm, that preyest upon the opening bud, and turnest
the damask-rose into livid yellowness!

If, as religion teaches us, God will judge us, in a great measure, by our
benevolent or evil actions to one another--O wretch! bethink thee, in
time bethink thee, how great must be thy condemnation!


PAPER VIIII


At first, I saw something in your air and person that displeased me
not.  Your birth and fortunes were no small advantages to you.--You
acted not ignobly by my passionate brother.  Every body said you were
brave: every body said you were generous: a brave man, I thought, could
not be a base man: a generous man, could not, I believed, be ungenerous,
where he acknowledged obligation.  Thus prepossessed, all the rest that
my soul loved and wished for in your reformation I hoped!--I knew not,
but by report, any flagrant instances of your vileness.  You seemed
frank, as well as generous: frankness and generosity ever attracted me:
whoever kept up those appearances, I judged of their hearts by my own;
and whatever qualities I wished to find in them, I was ready to find;
and, when found, I believed them to be natives of the soil.

My fortunes, my rank, my character, I thought a further security.  I
was in none of those respects unworthy of being the niece of Lord M.
and of his two noble sisters.--Your vows, your imprecations--But, Oh!
you have barbarously and basely conspired against that honour, which
you ought to have protected: and now you have made me--What is it of
vile that you have not made me?--

Yet, God knows my heart, I had no culpable inclinations!--I honoured
virtue!--I hated vice!--But I knew not, that you were vice itself!


PAPER IX


Had the happiness of any of the poorest outcast in the world, whom I
had neveer seen, never known, never before heard of, lain as much in my
power, as my happiness did in your's, my benevolent heart would have
made me fly to the succour of such a poor distressed--with what pleasure
would I have raised the dejected head, and comforted the desponding
heart!--But who now shall pity the poor wretch, who has increased,
instead of diminished, the number of the miserable!


PAPER X


Lead me, where my own thoughts themselves may lose me;
Where I may dose out what I've left of life,
Forget myself, and that day's guile!----
Cruel remembrance!----how shall I appease thee?

[Death only can be dreadful to the bad;*
To innocence 'tis like a bugbear dress'd
To frighten children.  Pull but off the mask,
And he'll appear a friend.]


* Transcriber's note: Portions set off in square brackets [ ] are written
at angles to the majority of the text, as if squeezed into margins.


----Oh! you have done an act
That blots the face and blush of modesty;
       Takes off the rose
 From the fair forehead of an innocent love,
And makes a blister there!

       Then down I laid my head,
Down on cold earth, and for a while was dead;
And my freed soul to a strange somewhere fled!
       Ah! sottish soul! said I,
When back to its cage again I saw it fly;
       Fool! to resume her broken chain,
And row the galley here again!
       Fool! to that body to return,
Where it condemn'd and destin'd is to mourn!

[I could a tale unfold----
       Would harrow up thy soul----]

O my Miss Howe! if thou hast friendship, help me,
And speak the words of peace to my divided soul,
       That wars within me,
And raises ev'ry sense to my confusion.
       I'm tott'ring on the brink
Of peace; an thou art all the hold I've left!
Assist me----in the pangs of my affliction!

When honour's lost, 'tis a relief to die:
Death's but a sure retreat from infamy.

[By swift misfortunes
     How I am pursu'd!
Which on each other
     Are, like waves, renew'd!]

The farewell, youth,
     And all the joys that dwell
With youth and life!
     And life itself, farewell!

For life can never be sincerely blest.
Heav'n punishes the bad, and proves the best.


***


After all, Belford, I have just skimmed over these transcriptions of
Dorcas: and I see there are method and good sense in some of them, wild
as others of them are; and that her memory, which serves her so well
for these poetical flights, is far from being impaired.  And this gives
me hope, that she will soon recover her charming intellects--though I
shall be the sufferer by their restoration, I make no doubt.

But, in the letter she wrote to me, there are yet greater extravagancies;
and though I said it was too affecting to give thee a copy of it, yet,
after I have let thee see the loose papers enclosed, I think I may throw
in a transcript of that.  Dorcas therefore shall here transcribe it.  I
cannot.  The reading of it affected me ten times more than the severest
reproaches of a regular mind could do.


TO MR. LOVELACE

I never intended to write another line to you.  I would not see you, if I
could help it--O that I never had!

But tell me, of a truth, is Miss Howe really and truly ill?--Very ill?-
And is not her illness poison?  And don't you know who gave it to her?

What you, or Mrs. Sinclair, or somebody (I cannot tell who) have done to
my poor head, you best know: but I shall never be what I was.  My head is
gone.  I have wept away all my brain, I believe; for I can weep no more.
Indeed I have had my full share; so it is no matter.

But, good now, Lovelace, don't set Mrs. Sinclair upon me again.--I never
did her any harm.  She so affrights me, when I see her!--Ever since--when
was it?  I cannot tell.  You can, I suppose.  She may be a good woman, as
far as I know.  She was the wife of a man of honour--very likely--though
forced to let lodgings for a livelihood.  Poor gentlewoman!  Let her know
I pity her: but don't let her come near me again--pray don't!

Yet she may be a very good woman--

What would I say!--I forget what I was going to say.

O Lovelace, you are Satan himself; or he helps you out in every thing;
and that's as bad!

But have you really and truly sold yourself to him?  And for how long?
What duration is your reign to have?

Poor man!  The contract will be out: and then what will be your fate!

O Lovelace! if you could be sorry for yourself, I would be sorry too--but
when all my doors are fast, and nothing but the key-hole open, and the
key of late put into that, to be where you are, in a manner without
opening any of them--O wretched, wretched Clarissa Harlowe!

For I never will be Lovelace--let my uncle take it as he pleases.

Well, but now I remember what I was going to say--it is for your good--
not mine--for nothing can do me good now!--O thou villanous man! thou
hated Lovelace!

But Mrs. Sinclair may be a good woman--if you love me--but that you don't
--but don't let her bluster up with her worse than mannish airs to me
again!  O she is a frightful woman!  If she be a woman!  She needed not
to put on that fearful mask to scare me out of my poor wits.  But don't
tell her what I say--I have no hatred to her--it is only fright, and
foolish fear, that's all.--She may not be a bad woman--but neither are
all men, any more than all women alike--God forbid they should be like
you!

Alas! you have killed my head among you--I don't say who did it!--God
forgive you all!--But had it not been better to have put me out of all
your ways at once?  You might safely have done it!  For nobody would
require me at your hands--no, not a soul--except, indeed, Miss Howe would
have said, when she should see you, What, Lovelace, have you done with
Clarissa Harlowe?--And then you could have given any slight, gay answer--
sent her beyond sea; or, she has run away from me, as she did from her
parents.  And this would have been easily credited; for you know,
Lovelace, she that could run away from them, might very well run away
from you.

But this is nothing to what I wanted to say.  Now I have it.

I have lost it again--This foolish wench comes teasing me--for what
purpose should I eat?  For what end should I wish to live?--I tell thee,
Dorcas, I will neither eat nor drink.  I cannot be worse than I am.

I will do as you'd have me--good Dorcas, look not upon me so fiercely--
but thou canst not look so bad as I have seen somebody look.

Mr. Lovelace, now that I remember what I took pen in hand to say, let me
hurry off my thoughts, lest I lose them again--here I am sensible--and
yet I am hardly sensible neither--but I know my head is not as it should
be, for all that--therefore let me propose one thing to you: it is for
your good--not mine; and this is it:

I must needs be both a trouble and an expense to you.  And here my uncle
Harlowe, when he knows how I am, will never wish any man to have me: no,
not even you, who have been the occasion of it--barbarous and ungrateful!
--A less complicated villany cost a Tarquin--but I forget what I would
say again--

Then this is it--I never shall be myself again: I have been a very wicked
creature--a vain, proud, poor creature, full of secret pride--which I
carried off under an humble guise, and deceived every body--my sister
says so--and now I am punished--so let me be carried out of this house,
and out of your sight; and let me be put into that Bedlam privately,
which once I saw: but it was a sad sight to me then!  Little as I thought
what I should come to myself!--That is all I would say: this is all I
have to wish for--then I shall be out of all your ways; and I shall be
taken care of; and bread and water without your tormentings, will be
dainties: and my straw-bed the easiest I have lain in--for--I cannot tell
how long!

My clothes will sell for what will keep me there, perhaps as long as I
shall live.  But, Lovelace, dear Lovelace, I will call you; for you have
cost me enough, I'm sure!--don't let me be made a show of, for my
family's sake; nay, for your own sake, don't do that--for when I know all
I have suffered, which yet I do not, and no matter if I never do--I may
be apt to rave against you by name, and tell of all your baseness to a
poor humbled creature, that once was as proud as any body--but of what I
can't tell--except of my own folly and vanity--but let that pass--since
I am punished enough for it--

So, suppose, instead of Bedlam, it were a private mad-house, where nobody
comes!--That will be better a great deal.

But, another thing, Lovelace: don't let them use me cruelly when I am
there--you have used me cruelly enough, you know!--Don't let them use me
cruelly; for I will be very tractable; and do as any body would have me
to do--except what you would have me do--for that I never will.--Another
thing, Lovelace: don't let this good woman, I was going to say vile
woman; but don't tell her that--because she won't let you send me to this
happy refuge, perhaps, if she were to know it--

Another thing, Lovelace: and let me have pen, and ink, and paper, allowed
me--it will be all my amusement--but they need not send to any body I
shall write to, what I write, because it will but trouble them: and
somebody may do you a mischief, may be--I wish not that any body do any
body a mischief upon my account.

You tell me, that Lady Betty Lawrance, and your cousin Montague, were
here to take leave of me; but that I was asleep, and could not be waked.
So you told me at first I was married, you know, and that you were my
husband--Ah! Lovelace! look to what you say.--But let not them, (for they
will sport with my misery,) let not that Lady Betty, let not that Miss
Montague, whatever the real ones may do; nor Mrs. Sinclair neither, nor
any of her lodgers, nor her nieces, come to see me in my place--real
ones, I say; for, Lovelace, I shall find out all your villanies in time--
indeed I shall--so put me there as soon as you can--it is for your good--
then all will pass for ravings that I can say, as, I doubt no many poor
creatures' exclamations do pass, though there may be too much truth in
them for all that--and you know I began to be mad at Hampstead--so you
said.--Ah! villanous man! what have you not to answer for!


***


A little interval seems to be lent me.  I had begun to look over what I
have written.  It is not fit for any one to see, so far as I have been
able to re-peruse it: but my head will not hold, I doubt, to go through
it all.  If therefore I have not already mentioned my earnest desire, let
me tell you it is this: that I be sent out of this abominable house
without delay, and locked up in some private mad-house about this town;
for such, it seems, there are; never more to be seen, or to be produced
to any body, except in your own vindication, if you should be charged
with the murder of my person; a much lighter crime than that of
honour, which the greatest villain on earth has robbed me of.  And deny
me not this my last request, I beseech you; and one other, and that is,
never to let me see you more!  This surely may be granted to

The miserably abused
CLARISSA HARLOWE.


***


I will not bear thy heavy preachments, Belford, upon this affecting
letter.  So, not a word of that sort!  The paper, thou'lt see, is
blistered with the tears even of the hardened transcriber; which has
made her ink run here and there.

Mrs. Sinclair is a true heroine, and, I think, shames us all.  And she is
a woman too!  Thou'lt say, the beset things corrupted become the worst.
But this is certain, that whatever the sex set their hearts upon, they
make thorough work of it.  And hence it is, that a mischief which would
end in simple robbery among men rogues, becomes murder, if a woman be in
it.

I know thou wilt blame me for having had recourse to art.  But do not
physicians prescribe opiates in acute cases, where the violence of the
disorder would be apt to throw the patient into a fever or delirium?  I
aver, that my motive for this expedient was mercy; nor could it be any
thing else.  For a rape, thou knowest, to us rakes, is far from being an
undesirable thing.  Nothing but the law stands in our way, upon that
account; and the opinion of what a modest woman will suffer rather than
become a viva voce accuser, lessens much an honest fellow's apprehensions
on that score. Then, if these somnivolencies [I hate the word opiates on
this occasion,] have turned her head, that is an effect they frequently
have upon some constitutions; and in this case was rather the fault of
the dose than the design of the giver.

But is not wine itself an opiate in degree?--How many women have been
taken advantage of by wine, and other still more intoxicating viands?--
Let me tell thee, Jack, that the experience of many of the passive sex,
and the consciences of many more of the active, appealed to, will testify
that thy Lovelace is not the worst of villains.  Nor would I have thee
put me upon clearing myself by comparisons.

If she escape a settled delirium when my plots unravel, I think it is all
I ought to be concerned about.  What therefore I desire of thee, is,
that, if two constructions may be made of my actions, thou wilt afford me
the most favourable.  For this, not only friendship, but my own
ingenuousness, which has furnished thee with the knowledge of the facts
against which thou art so ready to inveigh, require of thee.


***


Will. is just returned from an errand to Hampstead; and acquaints me,
that Mrs. Townsend was yesterday at Mrs. Moore's, accompanied by three or
four rough fellows; a greater number (as supposed) at a distance.  She
was strangely surprised at the news that my spouse and I are entirely
reconciled; and that two fine ladies, my relations, came to visit her,
and went to town with her: where she is very happy with me.  She was sure
we were not married, she said, unless it was while we were at Hampstead:
and they were sure the ceremony was not performed there.  But that the
lady is happy and easy, is unquestionable: and a fling was thrown out by
Mrs. Moore and Mrs. Bevis at mischief-makers, as they knew Mrs. Townsend
to be acquainted with Miss Howe.

Now, since my fair-one can neither receive, nor send away letters, I am
pretty easy as to this Mrs. Townsend and her employer.  And I fancy Miss
Howe will be puzzled to know what to think of the matter, and afraid of
sending by Wilson's conveyance; and perhaps suppose that her friend
slights her; or has changed her mind in my favour, and is ashamed to own
it; as she has not had an answer to what she wrote; and will believe that
the rustic delivered her last letter into her own hand.

Mean time I have a little project come into my head, of a new kind; just
for amusement-sake, that's all: variety has irresistible charms.  I
cannot live without intrigue.  My charmer has no passions; that is to
say, none of the passions that I want her to have.  She engages all my
reverence.  I am at present more inclined to regret what I have done,
than to proceed to new offences: and shall regret it till I see how she
takes it when recovered.

Shall I tell thee my project?  'Tis not a high one.--'Tis this--to get
hither to Mrs. Moore, Miss Rawlins, and my widow Bevis; for they are
desirous to make a visit to my spouse, now we are so happy together.
And, if I can order it right, Belton, Mowbray, Tourville, and I, will
show them a little more of the ways of this wicked town, than they at
present know.  Why should they be acquainted with a man of my character,
and not be the better and wiser for it?--I would have every body rail
against rakes with judgment and knowledge, if they will rail.  Two of
these women gave me a great deal of trouble: and the third, I am
confident, will forgive a merry evening.

Thou wilt be curious to know what the persons of these women are, to whom
I intend so much distinction.  I think I have not heretofore mentioned
any thing characteristic of their persons.

Mrs. Moore is a widow of about thirty-eight; a little mortified by
misfortunes; but those are often the merriest folks, when warmed.  She
has good features still; and is what they call much of a gentlewoman, and
very neat in her person and dress.  She has given over, I believe, all
thoughts of our sex: but when the dying embers are raked up about the
half-consumed stump, there will be fuel enough left, I dare say, to blaze
out, and give a comfortable warmth to a half-starved by-stander.

Mrs. Bevis is comely; that is to say, plump; a lover of mirth, and one
whom no grief ever dwelt with, I dare say, for a week together; about
twenty-five years of age: Mowbray will have very little difficulty with
her, I believe; for one cannot do every thing one's self.  And yet
sometimes women of this free cast, when it comes to the point, answer not
the promises their cheerful forwardness gives a man who has a view upon
them.

Miss Rawlins is an agreeable young lady enough; but not beautiful.  She
has sense, and would be thought to know the world, as it is called; but,
for her knowledge, is more indebted to theory than experience.  A mere
whipt-syllabub knowledge this, Jack, that always fails the person who
trusts to it, when it should hold to do her service.  For such young
ladies have so much dependence upon their own understanding and wariness,
are so much above the cautions that the less opinionative may be
benefited by, that their presumption is generally their overthrow, when
attempted by a man of experience, who knows how to flatter their vanity,
and to magnify their wisdom, in order to take advantage of their folly.
But, for Miss Rawlins, if I can add experience to her theory, what an
accomplished person will she be!--And how much will she be obliged to me;
and not only she, but all those who may be the better for the precepts
she thinks herself already so well qualified to give!  Dearly, Jack, do
I love to engage with these precept-givers, and example-setters.

Now, Belford, although there is nothing striking in any of these
characters; yet may we, at a pinch, make a good frolicky half-day with
them, if, after we have softened their wax at table by encouraging
viands, we can set our women and them into dancing: dancing, which all
women love, and all men should therefore promote, for both their sakes.

And thus, when Tourville sings, Belton fiddles, Mowbray makes rough love,
and I smooth; and thou, Jack, wilt be by that time well enough to join in
the chorus; the devil's in't if we don't mould them into what shape we
please--our own women, by their laughing freedoms, encouraging them to
break through all their customary reserves.  For women to women, thou
knowest, are great darers and incentives: not one of them loving to be
outdone or outdared, when their hearts are thoroughly warmed.

I know, at first, the difficulty will be the accidental absence of my
dear Mrs. Lovelace, to whom principally they will design their visit: but
if we can exhilarate them, they won't then wish to see her; and I can
form twenty accidents and excuses, from one hour to another, for her
absence, till each shall have a subject to take up all her thoughts.

I am really sick at heart for a frolic, and have no doubt but this will
be an agreeable one.  These women already think me a wild fellow; nor do
they like me the less for it, as I can perceive; and I shall take care,
that they shall be treated with so much freedom before one another's
faces, that in policy they shall keep each other's counsel.  And won't
this be doing a kind thing by them? since it will knit an indissoluble
band of union and friendship between three women who are neighbours, and
at present have only common obligations to one another: for thou wantest
not to be told, that secrets of love, and secrets of this nature, are
generally the strongest cement of female friendships.

But, after all, if my beloved should be happily restored to her
intellects, we may have scenes arise between us that will be sufficiently
busy to employ all the faculties of thy friend, without looking out for
new occasions.  Already, as I have often observed, has she been the means
of saving scores of her sex, yet without her own knowledge.


SATURDAY NIGHT.

By Dorcas's account of her lady's behaviour, the dear creature seems to
be recovering.  I shall give the earliest notice of this to the worthy
Capt. Tomlinson, that he may apprize uncle John of it.  I must be
properly enabled, from that quarter, to pacify her, or, at least, to
rebate her first violence.



LETTER XVII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
SUNDAY AFTERNOON, SIX O'CLOCK, (JUNE 18.)


I went out early this morning, and returned not till just now; when I was
informed that my beloved, in my absence, had taken it into her head to
attempt to get away.

She tripped down, with a parcel tied up in a handkerchief, her hood on;
and was actually in the entry, when Mrs. Sinclair saw her.

Pray, Madam, whipping between her and the street-door, be pleased to let
me know where you are going?

Who has a right to controul me? was the word.

I have, Madam, by order of your spouse: and, kemboing her arms, as she
owned, I desire you will be pleased to walk up again.

She would have spoken; but could not: and, bursting into tears, turned
back, and went up to her chamber: and Dorcas was taken to task for
suffering her to be in the passage before she was seen.

This shows, as we hoped last night, that she is recovering her charming
intellects.

Dorcas says, she was visible to her but once before the whole day; and
then she seemed very solemn and sedate.

I will endeavour to see her.  It must be in her own chamber, I suppose;
for she will hardly meet me in the dining-room.  What advantage will the
confidence of our sex give me over the modesty of her's, if she be
recovered!--I, the most confident of men: she, the most delicate of
women.  Sweet soul! methinks I have her before me: her face averted:
speech lost in sighs--abashed--conscious--what a triumphant aspect will
this give me, when I gaze on her downcast countenance!


***


This moment Dorcas tells me she believes she is coming to find me out.
She asked her after me: and Dorcas left her, drying her red-swoln eyes at
her glass; [no design of moving me by tears!] sighing too sensibly for my
courage.  But to what purpose have I gone thus far, if I pursue not my
principal end?  Niceness must be a little abated.  She knows the worst.
That she cannot fly me; that she must see me; and that I can look her
into a sweet confusion; are circumstances greatly in my favour.  What can
she do but rave and exclaim?  I am used to raving and exclaiming--but, if
recovered, I shall see how she behaves upon this our first sensible
interview after what she has suffered.

Here she comes.



LETTER XVIII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
SUNDAY NIGHT.


Never blame me for giving way to have art used with this admirable
creature.  All the princes of the air, or beneath it, joining with me,
could never have subdued her while she had her senses.

I will not anticipate--only to tell thee, that I am too much awakened by
her to think of sleep, were I to go to bed; and so shall have nothing to
do but to write an account of our odd conversation, while it is so strong
upon my mind that I can think of nothing else.

She was dressed in a white damask night-gown, with less negligence than
for some days past.  I was sitting with my pen in my fingers; and stood
up when I first saw her, with great complaisance, as if the day were
still her own.  And so indeed it is.

She entered with such dignity in her manner as struck me with great awe,
and prepared me for the poor figure I made in the subsequent
conversation.  A poor figure indeed!--But I will do her justice.

She came up with quick steps, pretty close to me; a white handkerchief
in her hand; her eyes neither fierce nor mild, but very earnest; and a
fixed sedateness in her whole aspect, which seemed to be the effect of
deep contemplation: and thus she accosted me, with an air and action that
I never saw equalled.

You see before you, Sir, the wretch, whose preference of you to all your
sex you have rewarded--as it indeed deserved to be rewarded.  My father's
dreadful curse has already operated upon me in the very letter of it, as
to this life; and it seems to me too evident that it will not be your
fault that it is not entirely completed in the loss of my soul, as well
as of my honour--which you, villanous man! have robbed me of, with a
baseness so unnatural, so inhuman, that it seems you, even you, had not
the heart to attempt it, till my senses were made the previous sacrifice.

Here I made an hesitating effort to speak, laying down my pen: but she
proceeded!--Hear me out, guilty wretch!--abandoned man!--Man, did I say?
--Yet what name else can I? since the mortal worryings of the fiercest
beast would have been more natural, and infinitely more welcome, that
what you have acted by me; and that with a premeditation and contrivance
worthy only of that single heart which now, base as well as ungrateful as
thou art, seems to quake within thee.--And well may'st thou quake; well
may'st thou tremble, and falter, and hesitate, as thou dost, when thou
reflectest upon what I have suffered for thy sake, and upon the returns
thou hast made me!

By my soul, Belford, my whole frame was shaken: for not only her looks
and her action, but her voice, so solemn, was inexpressibly affecting:
and then my cursed guilt, and her innocence, and merit, and rank, and
superiority of talents, all stared me at that instant in the face so
formidably, that my present account, to which she unexpectedly called me,
seemed, as I then thought, to resemble that general one, to which we are
told we shall be summoned, when our conscience shall be our accuser.

But she had had time to collect all the powers of her eloquence.  The
whole day probably in her intellects.  And then I was the more
disappointed, as I had thought I could have gazed the dear creature into
confusion--but it is plain, that the sense she has of her wrongs sets
this matchless woman above all lesser, all weaker considerations.

My dear--my love--I--I--I never--no never--lips trembling, limbs quaking,
voice inward, hesitating, broken--never surely did miscreant look so like
a miscreant! while thus she proceeded, waving her snowy hand, with all
the graces of moving oratory.

I have no pride in the confusion visible in thy whole person.  I have
been all the day praying for a composure, if I could not escape from this
vile house, that should once more enable me to look up to my destroyer
with the consciousness of an innocent sufferer.  Thou seest me, since my
wrongs are beyond the power of words to express, thou seest me, calm
enough to wish, that thou may'st continue harassed by the workings of thy
own conscience, till effectual repentance take hold of thee, that so thou
may'st not forfeit all title to that mercy which thou hast not shown to
the poor creature now before thee, who had so well deserved to meet with
a faithful friend where she met with the worst of enemies.

But tell me, (for no doubt thou hast some scheme to pursue,) tell me,
since I am a prisoner, as I find, in the vilest of houses, and have not a
friend to protect or save me, what thou intendest shall become of the
remnant of a life not worth the keeping!--Tell me, if yet there are more
evils reserved for me; and whether thou hast entered into a compact with
the grand deceiver, in the person of his horrid agent in this house; and
if the ruin of my soul, that my father's curse may be fulfilled, is to
complete the triumphs of so vile a confederacy?--Answer me!--Say, if thou
hast courage to speak out to her whom thou hast ruined, tell me what
farther I am to suffer from thy barbarity?

She stopped here, and, sighing, turned her sweet face from me, drying up
with her handkerchief those tears which she endeavoured to restrain; and,
when she could not, to conceal from my sight.

As I told thee, I had prepared myself for high passions, raving, flying,
tearing execration; these transient violences, the workings of sudden
grief, and shame, and vengeance, would have set us upon a par with each
other, and quitted scores.  These have I been accustomed to; and as
nothing violent is lasting, with these I could have wished to encounter.
But such a majestic composure--seeking me--whom, yet it is plain, by her
attempt to get away, she would have avoided seeking--no Lucretia-like
vengeance upon herself in her thought--yet swallowed up, her whole mind
swallowed up, as I may say, by a grief so heavy, as, in her own words, to
be beyond the power of speech to express--and to be able, discomposed as
she was, to the very morning, to put such a home-question to me, as if
she had penetrated my future view--how could I avoid looking like a fool,
and answering, as before, in broken sentences and confusion?

What--what-a--what has been done--I, I, I--cannot but say--must own--must
confess--hem--hem----is not right--is not what should have been--but-a--
but--but--I am truly--truly--sorry for it--upon my soul I am--and--and--
will do all--do every thing--do what--whatever is incumbent upon me--all
that you--that you--that you shall require, to make you amends!----

O Belford!  Belford! whose the triumph now!  HER'S, or MINE?

Amends!  O thou truly despicable wretch!  Then lifting up her eyes--Good
Heaven! who shall pity the creature who could fall by so base a mind!--
Yet--[and then she looked indignantly upon me!] yet, I hate thee not
(base and low-souled as thou art!) half so much as I hate myself, that I
saw thee not sooner in thy proper colours!  That I hoped either morality,
gratitude, or humanity, from a libertine, who, to be a libertine, must
have got over and defied all moral sanctions.*


* Her cousin Morden's words to her in his letter from Florence.  See Vol.
IV. Letter XIX.


She then called upon her cousin Morden's name, as if he had warned her
against a man of free principles; and walked towards the window; her
handkerchief at her eyes.  But, turning short towards me, with an air of
mingled scorn and majesty, [what, at the moment, would I have given never
to have injured her!]  What amends hast thou to propose!  What amends can
such a one as thou make to a person of spirit, or common sense, for the
evils thou hast so inhumanely made me suffer?

As soon, Madam--as soon--as--as soon as your uncle--or--not waiting----

Thou wouldest tell me, I suppose--I know what thou wouldest tell me--But
thinkest thou, that marriage will satisfy for a guilt like thine?
Destitute as thou hast made me both of friends and fortune, I too much
despise the wretch, who could rob himself of his wife's virtue, to endure
the thoughts of thee in the light thou seemest to hope I will accept thee
in!--

I hesitated an interruption; but my meaning died away upon my trembling
lips.  I could only pronounce the word marriage--and thus she proceeded:

Let me, therefore, know whether I am to be controuled in the future
disposal of myself?  Whether, in a country of liberty, as this, where the
sovereign of it must not be guilty of your wickedness, and where you
neither durst have attempted it, had I one friend or relation to look
upon me, I am to be kept here a prisoner, to sustain fresh injuries?
Whether, in a word, you intend to hinder me from going where my destiny
shall lead me?

After a pause--for I was still silent:

Can you not answer me this plain question?--I quit all claim, all
expectation, upon you--what right have you to detain me here?

I could not speak.  What could I say to such a question?

O wretch! wringing her uplifted hands, had I not been robbed of my
senses, and that in the basest manner--you best know how--had I been able
to account for myself, and your proceedings, or to have known but how the
days passed--a whole week should not have gone over my head, as I find it
has done, before I had told you, what I now tell you--That the man who
has been the villain to me you have been, shall never make me his wife.--
I will write to my uncle, to lay aside his kind intentions in my favour--
all my prospects are shut in--I give myself up for a lost creature as to
this world--hinder me not from entering upon a life of severe penitence,
for corresponding, after prohibition, with a wretch who has too well
justified all their warnings and inveteracy; and for throwing myself into
the power of your vile artifices.  Let me try to secure the only hope I
have left.  This is all the amends I ask of you.  I repeat, therefore, Am
I now at liberty to dispose of myself as I please?

Now comes the fool, the miscreant again, hesitating his broken answer: My
dearest love, I am confounded, quite confounded, at the thought of what--
of what has been done; and at the thought of--to whom.  I see, I see,
there is no withstanding your eloquence!--Such irresistible proofs of the
love of virtue, for its own sake, did I never hear of, nor meet with, in
all my reading.  And if you can forgive a repentant villain, who thus on
his knees implores your forgiveness, [then down I dropt, absolutely in
earnest in all I said,] I vow by all that's sacred and just, (and may a
thunderbolt strike me dead at your feet, if I am not sincere!) that I
will by marriage before to-morrow noon, without waiting for your uncle,
or any body, do you all the justice I now can do you.  And you shall ever
after controul and direct me as you please, till you have made me more
worthy of your angelic purity than now I am: nor will I presume so much
as to touch your garment, till I have the honour to call so great a
blessing lawfully mine.

O thou guileful betrayer! there is a just God, whom thou invokest: yet
the thunderbolt descends not; and thou livest to imprecate and deceive!

My dearest life! rising; for I hoped she was relenting----

Hadst thou not sinned beyond the possibility of forgiveness, interrupted
she; and this had been the first time that thus thou solemnly promisest
and invokest the vengeance thou hast as often defied; the desperateness
of my condition might have induced me to think of taking a wretched
chance with a man so profligate.  But, after what I have suffered by
thee, it would be criminal in me to wish to bind my soul in covenant to
a man so nearly allied to perdition.

Good God!--how uncharitable!--I offer not to defend--would to Heaven that
I could recall--so nearly allied to perdition, Madam!--So profligate a
man, Madam!----

O how short is expression of thy crimes, and of my sufferings! Such
premeditation is thy baseness!  To prostitute the characters of persons
of honour of thy own family--and all to delude a poor creature, whom thou
oughtest--But why talk I to thee?  Be thy crimes upon thy head!  Once
more I ask thee, Am I, or am I not, at my own liberty now?

I offered to speak in defence of the women, declaring that they really
were the very persons----

Presume not, interrupted she, base as thou art, to say one word in thine
own vindication.  I have been contemplating their behaviour, their
conversation, their over-ready acquiescences, to my declarations in thy
disfavour; their free, yet affectedly-reserved light manners: and now
that the sad event has opened my eyes, and I have compared facts and
passages together, in the little interval that has been lent me, I wonder
I could not distinguish the behaviour of the unmatron-like jilt, whom
thou broughtest to betray me, from the worthy lady whom thou hast the
honour to call thy aunt: and that I could not detect the superficial
creature whom thou passedst upon me for the virtuous Miss Montague.

Amazing uncharitableness in a lady so good herself!--That the high
spirits those ladies were in to see you, should subject them to such
censures!--I do must solemnly vow, Madam----

That they were, interrupting me, verily and indeed Lady Betty Lawrance
and thy cousin Montague!--O wretch!  I see by thy solemn averment [I had
not yet averred it,] what credit ought to be given to all the rest.  Had
I no other proof----

Interrupting her, I besought her patient ear.  'I had found myself, I
told her, almost avowedly despised and hated.  I had no hope of gaining
her love, or her confidence.  The letter she had left behind her, on her
removal to Hampstead, sufficiently convinced me that she was entirely
under Miss Howe's influence, and waited but the return of a letter from
her to enter upon measures that would deprive me of her for ever: Miss
Howe had ever been my enemy: more so then, no doubt, from the contents of
the letter she had written to her on her first coming to Hampstead; that
I dared not to stand the event of such a letter; and was glad of an
opportunity, by Lady Betty's and my cousin's means (though they knew not
my motive) to get her back to town; far, at the time, from intending the
outrage which my despair, and her want of confidence in me, put me so
vilely upon'--

I would have proceeded; and particularly would have said something of
Captain Tomlinson and her uncle; but she would not hear me further.  And
indeed it was with visible indignation, and not without several angry
interruptions, that she heard me say so much.

Would I dare, she asked me, to offer at a palliation of my baseness?  The
two women, she was convinced, were impostors.  She knew not but Captain
Tomlinson and Mr. Mennell were so too.  But whether they were so or not,
I was.  And she insisted upon being at her own disposal for the remainder
of her short life--for indeed she abhorred me in every light; and more
particularly in that in which I offered myself to her acceptance.

And, saying this, she flung from me; leaving me absolutely shocked and
confounded at her part of a conversation which she began with such
uncommon, however severe, composure, and concluded with so much sincere
and unaffected indignation.

And now, Jack, I must address one serious paragraph particularly to thee.

I have not yet touched upon cohabitation--her uncle's mediation she does
not absolutely discredit, as I had the pleasure to find by one hint in
this conversation--yet she suspects my future views, and has doubt about
Mennell and Tomlinson.

I do say, if she come fairly at her lights, at her clues, or what shall I
call them? her penetration is wonderful.

But if she do not come at them fairly, then is her incredulity, then is
her antipathy to me evidently accounted for.

I will speak out--thou couldst not, surely, play me booty, Jack?--Surely
thou couldst not let thy weak pity for her lead thee to an unpardonable
breach of trust to thy friend, who has been so unreserved in his
communications to thee?

I cannot believe thee capable of such a baseness.  Satisfy me, however,
upon this head.  I must make a cursed figure in her eye, vowing and
protesting, as I shall not scruple occasionally to vow and protest, if
all the time she has had unquestionable informations of my perfidy.  I
know thou as little fearest me, as I do thee, if any point of manhood;
and wilt scorn to deny it, if thou hast done it, when thus home-pressed.

And here I have a good mind to stop, and write no farther, till I have
thy answer.

And so I will.

MONDAY MORN. PAST THREE.



LETTER XIX

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
MONDAY MORN. FIVE O'CLOCK (JUNE 19.)


I must write on.  Nothing else can divert me: and I think thou canst not
have been a dog to me.

I would fain have closed my eyes: but sleep flies me.  Well says Horace,
as translated by Cowley:

      The halcyon sleep will never build his nest
            In any stormy breast.
        'Tis not enough that he does find
            Clouds and darkness in the mind:
         Darkness but half his work will do.
      'Tis not enough: he must find quiet too.

Now indeed do I from my heart wish that I had never known this lady.  But
who would have thought there had been such a woman in the world?  Of all
the sex I have hitherto known, or heard, or read of, it was once subdued,
and always subdued.  The first struggle was generally the last; or, at
least, the subsequent struggles were so much fainter and fainter, that a
man would rather have them than be without them.  But how know I yet----


***


It is now near six--the sun for two hours past has been illuminating
every thing about me: for that impartial orb shines upon Mother
Sinclair's house as well as upon any other: but nothing within me can it
illuminate.

At day-dawn I looked through the key-hole of my beloved's door.  She had
declared she would not put off her clothes any more in this house.  There
I beheld her in a sweet slumber, which I hope will prove refreshing to
her disturbed senses; sitting in her elbow-chair, her apron over her
head; her head supported by one sweet hand, the other hand hanging down
upon her side, in a sleepy lifelessness; half of one pretty foot only
visible.

See the difference in our cases! thought I: she, the charming injured,
can sweetly sleep, while the varlet injurer cannot close his eyes; and
has been trying, to no purpose, the whole night to divert his melancholy,
and to fly from himself!

As every vice generally brings on its own punishment, even in this life;
if any thing were to tempt me to doubt of future punishment, it would be,
that there can hardly be a greater than that in which I at this instant
experience in my own remorse.

I hope it will go off.  If not, well will the dear creature be avenged;
for I shall be the most miserable of men.


***


SIX O'CLOCK.

Just now Dorcas tells me, that her lady is preparing openly, and without
disguise, to be gone.  Very probable.  The humour she flew away from me
in last night has given me expectation of such an enterprize.

Now, Jack, to be thus hated and despised!--And if I have sinned beyond
forgiveness----

But she has sent me a message by Dorcas, that she will meet me in the
dining-room; and desires [odd enough] that the wretch may be present at
the conversation that shall pass between us.  This message gives me hope.


NINE O'CLOCK.

Confounded art, cunning villany!--By my soul, she had like to have
slipped through my fingers!  She meant nothing by her message but to get
Dorcas out of the way, and a clear coast.  Is a fancied distress,
sufficient to justify this lady for dispensing with her principles?  Does
she not show me that she can wilfully deceive, as well as I?

Had she been in the fore-house, and no passage to go through to get at
the street-door, she had certainly been gone.  But her haste betrayed
her: for Sally Martin happening to be in the fore-parlour, and hearing a
swifter motion than usual, and a rustling of silks, as if from somebody
in a hurry, looked out; and seeing who it was, stept between her and the
door, and set her back against it.

You must not go, Madam.  Indeed you must not.

By what right?--And how dare you?--And such-like imperious airs the dear
creature gave herself.--While Sally called out for her aunt; and half a
dozen voiced joined instantly in the cry, for me to hasten down, to
hasten down in a moment.

I was gravely instructing Dorcas above stairs, and wondering what would
be the subject of the conversation to which the wench was to be a
witness, when these outcries reached my ears.  And down I flew.--And
there was the charming creature, the sweet deceiver, panting for breath,
her back against the partition, a parcel in her hand, [women make no
excursions without their parcels,] Sally, Polly, (but Polly obligingly
pleaded for her,) the mother, Mabell, and Peter, (the footman of the
house,) about her; all, however, keeping their distance; the mother and
Sally between her and the door--in her soft rage the dear soul repeating,
I will go--nobody has a right--I will go--if you kill me, women, I won't
go up again!

As soon as she saw me, she stept a pace or two towards me; Mr. Lovelace,
I will go! said she--do you authorize these women--what right have they,
or you either, to stop me?

Is this, my dear, preparative to the conversation you led me to expect in
the dining-room?  And do you thing [sic] I can part with you thus?--Do
you think I will.

And am I, Sir, to be thus beset?--Surrounded thus?--What have these women
to do with me?

I desired them to leave us, all but Dorcas, who was down as soon as I.  I
then thought it right to assume an air of resolution, having found my
tameness so greatly triumphed over.  And now, my dear, said I, (urging
her reluctant feet,) be pleased to walk into the fore-parlour.  Here,
since you will not go up stairs, here we may hold our parley; and Dorcas
will be witness to it.  And now, Madam, seating her, and sticking my
hands in my sides, your pleasure!

Insolent villain! said the furious lady.  And rising, ran to the window,
and threw up the sash, [she knew not, I suppose, that there were iron
rails before the windows.]  And, when she found she could not get out
into the street, clasping her uplifted hands together, having dropt her
parcel--For the love of God, good honest man!--For the love of God,
mistress--[to two passers by,] a poor, a poor creature, said she, ruined!
----

I clasped her in my arms, people beginning to gather about the window:
and then she cried out Murder! help! help! and carried her up to the
dining-room, in spite of her little plotting heart, (as I may now call
it,) although she violently struggled, catching hold of the banisters
here and there, as she could.  I would have seated her there; but she
sunk down half-motionless, pale as ashes.  And a violent burst of tears
happily relieved her.

Dorcas wept over her.  The wench was actually moved for her!

Violent hysterics succeeded.  I left her to Mabell, Dorcas, and Polly;
the latter the most supportable to her of the sisterhood.

This attempt, so resolutely made, alarmed me not a little.

Mrs. Sinclair and her nymphs, are much more concerned; because of the
reputation of their house as they call it, having received some insults
(broken windows threatened) to make them produce the young creature who
cried out.

While the mobbish inquisitors were in the height of their office, the
women came running up to me, to know what they should do; a constable
being actually fetched.

Get the constable into the parlour, said I, with three or four of the
forwardest of the mob, and produce one of the nymphs, onion-eyed, in a
moment, with disordered head-dress and handkerchief, and let her own
herself the person: the occasion, a female skirmish: but satisfied with
the justice done her.  Then give a dram or two to each fellow, and all
will be well.


ELEVEN O'CLOCK.

All done as I advised; and all is well.

Mrs. Sinclair wishes she had never seen the face of so skittish a lady;
and she and Sally are extremely pressing with me, to leave the perverse
beauty to their breaking, as they call it, for four or five days.  But I
cursed them into silence; only ordering double precaution for the future.

Polly, though she consoled the dear perverse one all she could, when with
her, insists upon it to me, that nothing but terror will procure me
tolerable usage.

Dorcas was challenged by the women upon her tears.  She owned them real.
Said she was ashamed of herself: but could not help it.  So sincere, so
unyielding a grief, in so sweet a lady!--

The women laughed at her; but I bid her make no apologies for her tears,
nor mind their laughing.  I was glad to see them so ready.  Good use
might be made of such strangers.  In short, I would not have her indulge
them often, and try if it were not possible to gain her lady's confidence
by her concern for her.

She said that her lady did take kind notice of them to her; and was glad
to see such tokens of humanity in her.

Well then, said I, your part, whether any thing come of it or not, is to
be tender-hearted.  It can do no harm, if no good.  But take care you are
not too suddenly, or too officiously compassionate.

So Dorcas will be a humane, good sort of creature, I believe, very
quickly with her lady.  And as it becomes women to be so, and as my
beloved is willing to think highly of her own sex; it will the more
readily pass with her.

I thought to have had one trial (having gone so far) for cohabitation.
But what hope can there be of succeeding?--She is invincible!--Against
all my motions, against all my conceptions, (thinking of her as a woman,
and in the very bloom of her charms,) she is absolutely invincible.  My
whole view, at the present, is to do her legal justice, if I can but once
more get her out of her altitudes.

The consent of such a woman must make her ever new, ever charming.  But
astonishing!  Can the want of a church-ceremony make such a difference!

She owes me her consent; for hitherto I have had nothing to boast of.
All of my side, has been deep remorse, anguish of mind, and love
increased rather than abated.

How her proud rejection stings me!--And yet I hope still to get her to
listen to my stories of the family-reconciliation, and of her uncle and
Capt. Tomlinson--and as she has given me a pretence to detain her against
her will, she must see me, whether in temper or not.--She cannot help it.
And if love will not do, terror, as the women advise, must be tried.

A nice part, after all, has my beloved to act.  If she forgive me easily,
I resume perhaps my projects:--if she carry her rejection into violence,
that violence may make me desperate, and occasion fresh violence.  She
ought, since she thinks she has found the women out, to consider where
she is.

I am confoundedly out of conceit with myself.  If I give up my
contrivances, my joy in stratagem, and plot, and invention, I shall be
but a common man; such another dull heavy creature as thyself.  Yet what
does even my success in my machinations bring me but regret, disgrace,
repentance?  But I am overmatched, egregiously overmatched, by this
woman.  What to do with her, or without her, I know not.



LETTER XX

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.


I have this moment intelligence from Simon Parsons, one of Lord M.'s
stewards, that his Lordship is very ill.  Simon, who is my obsequious
servant, in virtue of my presumptive heirship, gives me a hint in his
letter, that my presence at M. Hall will not be amiss.  So I must
accelerate, whatever be the course I shall be allowed or compelled to
take.

No bad prospects for this charming creature, if the old peer would be so
kind as to surrender; and many a summons has this gout given him.  A good
8000£. a-year, and perhaps the title reversionary, or a still higher,
would help me up with her.

Proudly as this lady pretends to be above all pride, grandeur will have
its charms with her; for grandeur always makes a man's face shine in a
woman's eye.  I have a pretty good, because a clear, estate, as it is.
But what a noble variety of mischief will 8000£. a-year, enable a man to
do?

Perhaps thou'lt say, I do already all that comes into my head; but that's
a mistake--not one half I will assure thee.  And even good folks, as I
have heard, love to have the power of doing mischief, whether they make
use of it or not.  The late Queen Anne, who was a very good woman, was
always fond of prerogative.  And her ministers, in her name, in more
instances than one, made a ministerial use of this her foible.


***


But now, at last, am I to be admitted to the presence of my angry
fair-one; after three denials, nevertheless; and a peremptory from me, by
Dorcas, that I must see her in her chamber, if I cannot see her in the
dining-room.

Dorcas, however, tells me that she says, if she were at her own liberty,
she would never see me more; and that she had been asking after the
characters and conditions of the neighbours.  I suppose, now she has
found her voice, to call out for help from them, if there were any to
hear her.

She will have it now, it seems, that I had the wickedness from the very
beginning, to contrive, for her ruin, a house so convenient for dreadful
mischief.

Dorcas begs of her to be pacified--entreats her to see me with patience--
tells her that I am one of the most determined of men, as she has heard
say.  That gentleness may do with me; but that nothing else will, she
believes.  And what, as her ladyship (as she always styles her,) is
married, if I had broken my oath, or intended to break it!--

She hinted plain enough to the honest wench, that she was not married.
But Dorcas would not understand her.

This shows she is resolved to keep no measures.  And now is to be a trial
of skill, whether she shall or not.

Dorcas has hinted to her my Lord's illness, as a piece of intelligence
that dropt in conversation from me.

But here I stop.  My beloved, pursuant to my peremptory message, is just
gone up into the dining-room.



LETTER XXI

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
MONDAY AFTERNOON.


Pity me, Jack, for pity's sake; since, if thou dost not, nobody else
will: and yet never was there a man of my genius and lively temper that
wanted it more.  We are apt to attribute to the devil every thing happens
to us, which we would not have happen: but here, being, (as perhaps
thou'lt say,) the devil myself, my plagues arise from an angel.  I
suppose all mankind is to be plagued by its contrary.

She began with me like a true woman, [she in the fault, I to be blamed,]
the moment I entered the dining-room: not the least apology, not the
least excuse, for the uproar she had made, and the trouble she had given
me.

I come, said she, into thy detested presence, because I cannot help it.
But why am I to be imprisoned here?--Although to no purpose, I cannot
help----

Dearest Madam, interrupted I, give not way to so much violence.  You must
know, that your detention is entirely owing to the desire I have to make
you all the amends that is in my power to make you.  And this, as well for
your sake as my own.  Surely there is still one way left to repair
the wrongs you have suffered----

Canst thou blot out the past week!  Several weeks past, I should say;
ever since I have been with thee?  Canst thou call back time?--If thou
canst----

Surely, Madam, again interrupting her, if I may be permitted to call you
legally mine, I might have but anticip----

Wretch, that thou art!  Say not another word upon this subject.  When
thou vowedst, when thou promisedst at Hampstead, I had begun to think
that I must be thine.  If I had consented, at the request of those I
thought thy relations, this would have been a principal inducement, that
I could then have brought thee, what was most wanted, an unsullied honour
in dowry, to a wretch destitute of all honour; and could have met the
gratulations of a family to which thy life has been one continued
disgrace, with a consciousness of deserving their gratulations.  But
thinkest thou, that I will give a harlot niece to thy honourable uncle,
and to thy real aunts; and a cousin to thy cousins from a brothel? for
such, in my opinion, is this detested house!--Then, lifting up her
clasped hands, 'Great and good God of Heaven,' said she, 'give me
patience to support myself under the weight of those afflictions, which
thou, for wise and good ends, though at present impenetrable by me, hast
permitted!'

Then, turning towards me, who knew neither what to say to her, nor for
myself, I renounce thee for ever, Lovelace!--Abhorred of my soul! for
ever I renounce thee!--Seek thy fortunes wheresoever thou wilt!--only
now, that thou hast already ruined me!--

Ruined you, Madam--the world need not--I knew not what to say.

Ruined me in my own eyes; and that is the same to me as if all the world
knew it--hinder me not from going whither my mysterious destiny shall
lead me.

Why hesitate you, Sir?  What right have you to stop me, as you lately
did; and to bring me up by force, my hands and arms bruised by your
violence?  What right have you to detain me here?

I am cut to the heart, Madam, with invectives so violent.  I am but too
sensible of the wrong I have done you, or I could not bear your
reproaches.  The man who perpetrates a villany, and resolves to go on
with it, shows not the compunction I show.  Yet, if you think yourself
in my power, I would caution you, Madam, not to make me desperate.  For
you shall be mine, or my life shall be the forfeit!  Nor is life worth
having without you!--

Be thine!--I be thine!--said the passionate beauty.  O how lovely in her
violence!

Yes, Madam, be mine!  I repeat you shall be mine!  My very crime is your
glory.  My love, my admiration of you is increased by what has passed--
and so it ought.  I am willing, Madam, to court your returning favour;
but let me tell you, were the house beset by a thousand armed men,
resolved to take you from me, they should not effect their purpose, while
I had life.

I never, never will be your's, said she, clasping her hands together, and
lifting up her eyes!--I never will be your's!

We may yet see many happy years, Madam.  All your friends may be
reconciled to you.  The treaty for that purpose is in greater forwardness
than you imagine.  You know better than to think the worse of yourself
for suffering what you could not help.  Enjoin but the terms I can make
my peace with you upon, and I will instantly comply.

Never, never, repeated she, will I be your's!

Only forgive me, my dearest life, this one time!--A virtue so invincible!
what further view can I have against you?--Have I attempted any further
outrage?--If you will be mine, your injuries will be injuries done to
myself.  You have too well guessed at the unnatural arts that have been
used.  But can a greater testimony be given of your virtue?--And now I
have only to hope, that although I cannot make you complete amends, yet
you will permit me to make you all the amends that can possibly be made.

Here [sic] me out, I beseech you, Madam; for she was going to speak with
an aspect unpacifiedly angry: the God, whom you serve, requires but
repentance and amendment.  Imitate him, my dearest love, and bless me
with the means of reforming a course of life that begins to be hateful to
me.  That was once your favourite point.  Resume it, dearest creature, in
charity to a soul, as well as body, which once, as I flattered myself,
was more than indifferent to you, resume it.  And let to-morrow's sun
witness to our espousals.

I cannot judge thee, said she; but the GOD to whom thou so boldly
referrest can, and, assure thyself, He will.  But, if compunction has
really taken hold of thee--if, indeed, thou art touched for thy
ungrateful baseness, and meanest any thing by this pleading the holy
example thou recommendest to my imitation; in this thy pretended
repentant moment, let me sift thee thoroughly, and by thy answer I shall
judge of the sincerity of thy pretended declarations.

Tell me, then, is there any reality in the treaty thou has pretended to
be on foot between my uncle and Capt. Tomlinson, and thyself?--Say, and
hesitate not, is there any truth in that story?--But, remember, if there
be not, and thou avowest that there is, what further condemnation attends
to thy averment, if it be as solemn as I require it to be!

This was a cursed thrust!  What could I say!--Surely this merciless lady
is resolved to d--n me, thought I, and yet accuses me of a design against
her soul!--But was I not obliged to proceed as I had begun?

In short, I solemnly averred that there was!--How one crime, as the good
folks say, brings on another!

I added, that the Captain had been in town, and would have waited on her,
had she not been indisposed; that he went down much afflicted, as well on
her account, as on that of her uncle; though I had not acquainted him
either with the nature of her disorder, or the ever-to-be-regretted
occasion of it, having told him that it was a violent fever; That he had
twice since, by her uncle's desire, sent up to inquire after her health;
and that I had already dispatched a man and horse with a letter, to
acquaint him, (and her uncle through him,) with her recovery; making it
my earnest request, that he would renew his application to her uncle for
the favour of his presence at the private celebrations of our nuptials;
and that I expected an answer, if not this night, as to-morrow.

Let me ask thee next, said she, (thou knowest the opinion I have of the
women thou broughtest to me at Hampstead; and who have seduced me hither
to my ruin; let me ask thee,) If, really and truly, they were Lady Betty
Lawrance and thy cousin Montague?--What sayest thou--hesitate not--what
sayest thou to this question?

Astonishing, my dear, that you should suspect them!--But, knowing your
strange opinion of them, what can I say to be believed?

And is this the answer thou returnest me?  Dost thou thus evade my
question?  But let me know, for I am trying thy sincerity now, and all
shall judge of thy new professions by thy answer to this question; let me
know, I repeat, whether those women be really Lady Betty Lawrance and thy
cousin Montague?

Let me, my dearest love, be enabled to-morrow to call you lawfully mine,
and we will set out the next day, if you please, to Berkshire to my Lord
M.'s, where they both are at this time; and you shall convince yourself
by your own eyes, and by your own ears; which you will believe sooner
than all I can say or swear.

Now, Belford, I had really some apprehension of treachery from thee;
which made me so miserably evade; for else, I could as safely have sworn
to the truth of this, as to that of the former: but she pressing me still
for a categorical answer, I ventured plumb; and swore to it, [lover's
oaths, Jack!] that they were really and truly Lady Betty Lawrance and my
cousin Montague.

She lifted up her hands and eyes--What can I think!--what can I think!

You think me a devil, Madam; a very devil! or you could not after you
have put these questions to me, seem to doubt the truth of answers so
solemnly sworn to.

And if I do think thee so, have I not cause?  Is there another man in the
world, (I hope for the sake of human nature, there is not,) who could act
by any poor friendless creature as thou hast acted by me, whom thou hast
made friendless--and who, before I knew thee, had for a friend every one
who knew me?

I told you, Madam, before that Lady Betty and my cousin were actually
here, in order to take leave of you, before they set out for Berkshire:
but the effects of my ungrateful crime, (such, with shame and remorse, I
own it to be,) were the reason you could not see them.  Nor could I be
fond that they should see you; since they never would have forgiven me,
had they known what had passed--and what reason had I to expect your
silence on the subject, had you been recovered?

It signifies nothing now, that the cause of their appearance has been
answered in my ruin, who or what they are: but if thou hast averred thus
solemnly to two falsehoods, what a wretch do I see before me!

I thought she had now reason to be satisfied; and I begged her to allow
me to talk to her of to-morrow, as of the happiest day of my life.  We
have the license, Madam--and you must excuse me, that I cannot let you go
hence till I have tried every way I can to obtain your forgiveness.

And am I then, [with a kind of frantic wildness,] to be detained a
prisoner in this horrid house--am I, Sir?--Take care! take care! holding
up her hand, menacing, how you make me desperate!  If I fall, though by
my own hand, inquisition will be made for my blood; and be not out in thy
plot, Lovelace, if it should be so--make sure work, I charge thee--dig a
hole deep enough to cram in and conceal this unhappy body; for, depend
upon it, that some of those who will not stir to protect me living, will
move heaven and earth to avenge me dead!

A horrid dear creature!--By my soul she made me shudder!  She had need
indeed to talk of her unhappiness in falling into the hands of the only
man in the world, who could have used her as I have used her--she is the
only woman in the world, who could have shocked and disturbed me as she
has done.  So we are upon a foot in that respect.  And I think I have the
worst of it by much: since very little has been my joy--very much my
trouble.  And her punishment, as she calls it, is over: but when mine
will, or what it may be, who can tell?

Here, only recapitulating, (think, then, how I must be affected at the
time,) I was forced to leave off, and sing a song to myself.  I aimed at
a lively air; but I croaked rather than sung.  And fell into the old
dismal thirtieth of January strain; I hemmed up for a sprightlier note;
but it would not do; and at last I ended, like a malefactor, in a dead
psalm melody.

Heigh-ho!--I gape like an unfledged kite in its nest, wanting to swallow
a chicken, bobbed at its mouth by its marauding dam!--

What a-devil ails me?--I can neither think nor write!

Lie down, pen, for a moment!



LETTER XXII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.


There is certainly a good deal in the observation, that it costs a man
ten times more pains to be wicked, than it would cost him to be good.  What
a confounded number of contrivances have I had recourse to, in order
to carry my point with this charming creature; and yet after all, how
have I puzzled myself by it; and yet am near tumbling into the pit which
it was the end of all my plots to shun!  What a happy man had I been with
such an excellence, could I have brought my mind to marry when I first
prevailed upon her to quit her father's house!  But then, as I have often
reflected, how had I known, that a but blossoming beauty, who could carry
on a private correspondence, and run such risques with a notorious wild
fellow, was not prompted by inclination, which one day might give such a
free-liver as myself as much pain to reflect upon, as, at the time it
gave me pleasure?  Thou rememberest the host's tale in Ariosto.  And thy
experience, as well as mine, can furnish out twenty Fiametta's in proof
of the imbecility of the sex.

But to proceed with my narrative.

The dear creature resumed the topic her heart was so firmly fixed upon;
and insisted upon quitting the odious house, and that in very high terms.

I urged her to meet me the next day at the altar in either of the two
churches mentioned in the license.  And I besought her, whatever was her
resolution, to let me debate this matter calmly with her.

If, she said, I would have her give what I desired the least moment's
consideration, I must not hinder her from being her own mistress.  To
what purpose did I ask her consent, if she had not a power over either
her own person or actions?

Will you give me your honour, Madam, if I consent to your quitting a
house so disagreeable to you?--

My honour, Sir! said the dear creature--Alas!--And turned weeping from
me with inimitable grace--as if she had said--Alas!--you have robbed me
of my honour!

I hoped then, that her angry passions were subsiding; but I was mistaken;
for, urging her warmly for the day; and that for the sake of our mutual
honour, and the honour of both our families; in this high-flown and
high-souled strain she answered me:

And canst thou, Lovelace, be so mean--as to wish to make a wife of the
creature thou hast insulted, dishonoured, and abused, as thou hast me?
Was it necessary to humble me down to the low level of thy baseness,
before I could be a wife meet for thee?  Thou hadst a father, who was a
man of honour: a mother, who deserved a better son.  Thou hast an uncle,
who is no dishonour to the Peerage of a kingdom, whose peers are more
respectable than the nobility of any other country.  Thou hast other
relations also, who may be thy boast, though thou canst not be theirs--
and canst thou not imagine, that thou hearest them calling upon thee; the
dead from their monuments; the living from their laudable pride; not to
dishonour thy ancient and splendid house, by entering into wedlock with a
creature whom thou hast levelled with the dirt of the street, and classed
with the vilest of her sex?

I extolled her greatness of soul, and her virtue.  I execrated myself for
my guilt: and told her, how grateful to the manes of my ancestors, as
well as to the wishes of the living, the honour I supplicated for would
be.

But still she insisted upon being a free agent; of seeing herself in
other lodgings before she would give what I urged the least
consideration.  Nor would she promise me favour even then, or to permit
my visits.  How then, as I asked her, could I comply, without resolving
to lose her for ever?

She put her hand to her forehead often as she talked; and at last,
pleading disorder in her head, retired; neither of us satisfied with the
other.  But she ten times more dissatisfied with me, than I with her.

Dorcas seems to be coming into favour with her--

What now!--What now!


MONDAY NIGHT.

How determined is this lady!--Again had she like to have escaped us!--
What a fixed resentment!--She only, I find, assumed a little calm, in
order to quiet suspicion.  She was got down, and actually had unbolted
the street-door, before I could get to her; alarmed as I was by Mrs.
Sinclair's cookmaid, who was the only one that saw her fly through the
passage: yet lightning was not quicker than I.

Again I brought her back to the dining-room, with infinite reluctance on
her part.  And, before her face, ordered a servant to be placed
constantly at the bottom of the stairs for the future.

She seemed even choked with grief and disappointment.

Dorcas was exceedingly assiduous about her; and confidently gave it as
her own opinion, that her dear lady should be permitted to go to another
lodging, since this was so disagreeable to her: were she to be killed for
saying so, she would say it.  And was good Dorcas for this afterwards.

But for some time the dear creature was all passion and violence--

I see, I see, said she, when I had brought her up, what I am to expect
from your new professions, O vilest of men!--

Have I offered t you, my beloved creature, any thing that can justify
this impatience after a more hopeful calm?

She wrung her hands.  She disordered her head-dress.  She tore her
ruffles.  She was in a perfect phrensy.

I dreaded her returning malady: but, entreaty rather exasperating, I
affected an angry air.--I bid her expect the worst she had to fear--and
was menacing on, in hopes to intimidate her; when, dropping to my feet,

'Twill be a mercy, said she, the highest act of mercy you can do, to kill
me outright upon this spot--this happy spot, as I will, in my last
moments, call it!--Then, baring, with a still more frantic violence, part
of her enchanting neck--Here, here, said the soul-harrowing beauty, let
thy pointed mercy enter! and I will thank thee, and forgive thee for all
the dreadful past!--With my latest gasp will I forgive and thank thee!--
Or help me to the means, and I will myself put out of the way so
miserable a wretch!  And bless thee for those means!

Why all this extravagant passion?  Why all these exclamations?  Have I
offered any new injury to you, my dearest life?  What a phrensy is this!
Am I not ready to make you all the reparation that I can make you?  Had I
not reason to hope--

No, no, no, no, as before, shaking her head with wild impatience, as
resolved not to attend to what I said.

My resolutions are so honourable, if you will permit them to take effect,
that I need not be solicitous where you go, if you will but permit my
visits, and receive my vows.--And God is my witness, that I bring you not
back from the door with any view to your dishonour, but the contrary: and
this moment I will send for a minister to put an end to all your doubts
and fears.

Say this, and say a thousand times more, and bind every word with a
solemn appeal to that God whom thou art accustomed to invoke to the truth
of the vilest falsehoods, and all will still be short of what thou has
vowed and promised to me.  And, were not my heart to abhor thee, and to
rise against thee, for thy perjuries, as it does, I would not, I tell
thee once more, I would not, bind my soul in covenant with such a man,
for a thousand worlds!

Compose yourself, however, Madam; for your own sake, compose yourself.
Permit me to raise you up; abhorred as I am of your soul!

Nay, if I must not touch you; for she wildly slapt my hands; but with
such a sweet passionate air, her bosom heaving and throbbing as she
looked up to me, that although I was most sincerely enraged, I could with
transport have pressed her to mine.

If I must not touch you, I will not.--But depend upon it, [and I assumed
the sternest air I could assume, to try what it would do,] depend upon
it, Madam, that this is not the way to avoid the evils you dread.  Let me
do what I will, I cannot be used worse--Dorcas, begone!

She arose, Dorcas being about to withdraw; and wildly caught hold of her
arm: O Dorcas!  If thou art of mine own sex, leave me not, I charge thee!
--Then quitting Dorcas, down she threw herself upon her knees, in the
furthermost corner of the room, clasping a chair with her face laid upon
the bottom of it!--O where can I be safe?--Where, where can I be safe,
from this man of violence?--

This gave Dorcas an opportunity to confirm herself in her lady's
confidence: the wench threw herself at my feet, while I seemed in violent
wrath; and embracing my knees, Kill me, Sir, kill me, Sir, if you please!
--I must throw myself in your way, to save my lady.  I beg your pardon,
Sir--but you must be set on!--God forgive the mischief-makers!--But your
own heart, if left to itself, would not permit these things--spare,
however, Sir! spare my lady, I beseech you!--bustling on her knees about
me, as if I were intending to approach her lady, had I not been
restrained by her.

This, humoured by me, Begone, devil!--Officious devil, begone!--startled
the dear creature: who, snatching up hastily her head from the chair, and
as hastily popping it down again in terror, hit her nose, I suppose,
against the edge of the chair; and it gushed out with blood, running in a
stream down her bosom; she herself was too much frighted to heed it!

Never was mortal man in such terror and agitation as I; for I instantly
concluded, that she had stabbed herself with some concealed instrument.

I ran to her in a wild agony--for Dorcas was frighted out of all her mock
interposition----

What have you done!--O what have you done!--Look up to me, my dearest
life!--Sweet injured innocence, look up to me!  What have you done!--Long
will I not survive you!--And I was upon the point of drawing my sword to
dispatch myself, when I discovered--[What an unmanly blockhead does this
charming creature make me at her pleasure!] that all I apprehended was
but a bloody nose, which, as far as I know (for it could not be stopped
in a quarter of an hour) may have saved her head and her intellects.

But I see by this scene, that the sweet creature is but a pretty coward
at bottom; and that I can terrify her out of her virulence against me,
whenever I put on sternness and anger.  But then, as a qualifier to the
advantage this gives me over her, I find myself to be a coward too, which
I had not before suspected, since I was capable of being so easily
terrified by the apprehensions of her offering violence to herself.



LETTER XXIII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.


But with all this dear creature's resentment against me, I cannot, for my
heart, think but she will get all over, and consent to enter the pale
with me.  Were she even to die to-morrow, and to know she should, would
not a woman of her sense, of her punctilio, and in her situation, and of
so proud a family, rather die married, than otherwise?--No doubt but she
would; although she were to hate the man ever so heartily.  If so, there
is now but one man in the world whom she can have--and that is me.

Now I talk [familiar writing is but talking, Jack] thus glibly of
entering the pale, thou wilt be ready to question me, I know, as to my
intentions on this head.

As much of my heart, as I know of it myself, will I tell thee.--When I am
from her, I cannot still help hesitating about marriage; and I even
frequently resolve against it, and determine to press my favourite scheme
for cohabitation.  But when I am with her, I am ready to say, to swear,
and to do, whatever I think will be the most acceptable to her, and were
a parson at hand, I should plunge at once, no doubt of it, into the
state.

I have frequently thought, in common cases, that it is happy for many
giddy fellows [there are giddy fellows, as well as giddy girls, Jack; and
perhaps those are as often drawn in, as these] that ceremony and parade
are necessary to the irrevocable solemnity; and that there is generally
time for a man to recollect himself in the space between the heated
over-night, and the cooler next morning; or I know not who could escape
the sweet gypsies, whose fascinating powers are so much aided by our own
raised imaginations.

A wife at any time, I used to say.  I had ever confidence and vanity
enough to think that no woman breathing could deny her hand when I held
out mine.  I am confoundedly mortified to find that this lady is able to
hold me at bay, and to refuse all my honest vows.

What force [allow me a serious reflection, Jack: it will be put down!
What force] have evil habits upon the human mind!  When we enter upon a
devious course, we think we shall have it in our power when we will
return to the right path.  But it is not so, I plainly see: For, who can
acknowledge with more justice this dear creature's merits, and his own
errors, than I?  Whose regret, at times, can be deeper than mine, for the
injuries I have done her?  Whose resolutions to repair those injuries
stronger?--Yet how transitory is my penitence!--How am I hurried away--
Canst thou tell by what?--O devil of youth, and devil of intrigue, how do
you mislead me!--How often do we end in occasions for the deepest
remorse, what we begin in wantonness!--

At the present writing, however, the turn of the scale is in behalf of
matrimony--for I despair of carrying with her my favourite point.

The lady tells Dorcas, that her heart is broken: and that she shall live
but a little while.  I think nothing of that, if we marry.  In the first
place, she knows not what a mind unapprehensive will do for her, in a
state to which all the sex look forwards with high satisfaction.  How
often have the whole of the sacred conclave been thus deceived in their
choice of a pope; not considering that the new dignity is of itself
sufficient to give new life!  A few months' heart's ease will give my
charmer a quite different notion of things: and I dare say, as I have
heretofore said,* once married, and I am married for life.


* See Letter IX. of this volume.


I will allow that her pride, in one sense, has suffered abasement: but
her triumph is the greater in every other.  And while I can think that
all her trials are but additions to her honour, and that I have laid the
foundations of her glory in my own shame, can I be called cruel, if I am
not affected with her grief as some men would be?

And for what should her heart be broken?  Her will is unviolated;--at
present, however, her will is unviolated.  The destroying of good habits,
and the introducing of bad, to the corrupting of the whole heart, is the
violation.  That her will is not to be corrupted, that her mind is not to
be debased, she has hitherto unquestionably proved.  And if she give
cause for farther trials, and hold fast her integrity, what ideas will
she have to dwell upon, that will be able to corrupt her morals?  What
vestigia, what remembrances, but such as will inspire abhorrence of the
attempter?

What nonsense then to suppose that such a mere notional violation as she
has suffered should be able to cut asunder the strings of life?

Her religion, married, or not married, will set her above making such a
trifling accident, such an involuntary suffering fatal to her.

Such considerations as these they are that support me against all
apprehensions of bugbear consequences; and I would have them have weight
with thee; who are such a doughty advocate for her.  And yet I allow thee
this; that she really makes too much of it; takes it too much to heart.
To be sure she ought to have forgot it by this time, except the charming,
charming consequence happen, that still I am in hopes will happen, were I
to proceed no farther.  And, if she apprehended this herself, then has
the dear over-nice soul some reason for taking it so much to heart; and
yet would not, I think, refuse to legitimate.

O Jack! had I am imperial diadem, I swear to thee, that I would give it
up, even to my enemy, to have one charming boy by this lady.  And should
she escape me, and no such effect follow, my revenge on her family, and,
in such a case, on herself, would be incomplete, and I should reproach
myself as long as I lived.

Were I to be sure that this foundation is laid [And why may I not hope it
is?] I should not doubt to have her still (should she withstand her day
of grace) on my own conditions; nor should I, if it were so, question
that revived affection in her, which a woman seldom fails to have for the
father of her first child, whether born in wedlock, or out of it.

And pr'ythee, Jack, see in this my ardent hope, a distinction in my
favour from other rakes; who, almost to a man, follow their inclinations
without troubling themselves about consequences.  In imitation, as one
would think, of the strutting villain of a bird, which from feathered
lady to feathered lady pursues his imperial pleasures, leaving it to his
sleek paramours to hatch the genial product in holes and corners of their
own finding out.



LETTER XXIV

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
TUESDAY MORN. JUNE 20.


Well, Jack, now are we upon another footing together.  This dear creature
will not let me be good.  She is now authorizing all my plots by her own
example.

Thou must be partial in the highest degree, if now thou blamest me for
resuming my former schemes, since in that case I shall but follow her
cue.  No forced construction of her actions do I make on this occasion,
in order to justify a bad cause or a worse intention.  A slight pretence,
indeed, served the wolf when he had a mind to quarrel with the lamb; but
this is not now my case.

For here (wouldst thou have thought it?) taking advantage of Dorcas's
compassionate temper, and of some warm expressions which the
tender-hearted wench let fall against the cruelty of men, and wishing to
have it in her power to serve her, has she given her the following note,
signed by her maiden name: for she has thought fit, in positive and plain
words, to own to the pitying Dorcas that she is not married.


MONDAY, JUNE 19.

I then underwritten do hereby promise, that, on my coming into possession
of my own estate, I will provide for Dorcas Martindale in a gentlewoman-
like manner, in my own house: or, if I do not soon obtain that
possession, or should first die, I do hereby bind myself, my executors,
and administrators, to pay to her, or her order, during the term of her
natural life, the sum of five pounds on each of the four usual quarterly
days in the year; on condition that she faithfully assist me in my escape
from an illegal confinement under which I now labour.  The first
quarterly payment to commence and be payable at the end of three months
immediately following the day of my deliverance.  And I do also promise
to give her, as a testimony of my honour in the rest, a diamond ring,
which I have showed her.  Witness my hand this nineteenth day of June, in
the year above written.

CLARISSA HARLOWE.


Now, Jack, what terms wouldst thou have me to keep with such a sweet
corruptress?  Seest thou not how she hates me?  Seest thou not that she
is resolved never to forgive me?  Seest thou not, however, that she must
disgrace herself in the eye of the world, if she actually should escape?
That she must be subjected to infinite distress and hazard!  For whom has
she to receive and protect her?  Yet to determine to risque all these
evils! and furthermore to stoop to artifice, to be guilty of the reigning
vice of the times, of bribery and corruption!  O Jack, Jack! say not,
write not another word in her favour!

Thou hast blamed me for bringing her to this house: but had I carried her
to any other in England, where there would have been one servant or
inmate capable either of compassion or corruption, what must have been
the consequence?

But seest thou not, however, that in this flimsy contrivance, the dear
implacable, like a drowning man, catches at a straw to save herself!--A
straw shall she find to be the refuge she has resorted to.



LETTER XXV

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
TUES. MORN. TEN O'CLOCK


Very ill--exceedingly ill--as Dorcas tells me, in order to avoid seeing
me--and yet the dear soul may be so in her mind.  But is not that
equivocation?  Some one passion predominating in every human breast,
breaks through principle, and controuls us all.  Mine is love and revenge
taking turns.  Her's is hatred.--But this is my consolation, that hatred
appeased is love begun; or love renewed, I may rather say, if love ever
had footing here.

But reflectioning apart, thou seest, Jack, that her plot is beginning to
work.  To-morrow is to break out.

I have been abroad, to set on foot a plot of circumvention.  All fair
now, Belford!

I insisted upon visiting my indisposed fair-one.  Dorcas made officious
excuses for her.  I cursed the wench in her hearing for her impertinence;
and stamped and made a clutter; which was improved into an apprehension
to the lady that I would have flung her faithful confidante from the top
of the stairs to the bottom.

He is a violent wretch!--But, Dorcas, [dear Dorcas, now it is,] thou
shalt have a friend in me to the last day of my life.

And what now, Jack, dost think the name of her good angel is!--Why Dorcas
Martindale, christian and super (no more Wykes) as in the promissory note
in my former--and the dear creature has bound her to her by the most
solemn obligations, besides the tie of interest.

Whither, Madam, do you design to go when you get out of this house?

I will throw myself into the first open house I can find; and beg
protection till I can get a coach, or a lodging in some honest family.

What will you do for clothes, Madam?  I doubt you'll be able to take any
away with you, but what you'll have on.

O, no matter for clothes, if I can but get out of this house.

What will you do for money, Madam?  I have heard his honour express his
concern, that he could not prevail upon you to be obliged to him, though
he apprehended that you must be short of money.

O, I have rings and other valuables.  Indeed I have but four guineas, and
two of them I found lately wrapt up in a bit of lace, designed for a
charitable use.  But now, alas! charity begins at home!--But I have one
dear friend left, if she be living, as I hope in God she is! to whom I
can be obliged, if I want.  O Dorcas! I must ere now have heard from her,
if I had had fair play.

Well, Madam, your's is a hard lot.  I pity you at my heart!

Thank you, Dorcas!--I am unhappy, that I did not think before, that I might
have confided in thy pity, and in thy sex!

I pitied you, Madam, often and often: but you were always, as I thought,
diffident of me.  And then I doubted not but you were married; and I
thought his honour was unkindly used by you.  So that I thought it my
duty to wish well to his honour, rather than to what I thought to be your
humours, Madam.  Would to Heaven that I had known before that you were
not married!--Such a lady! such a fortune! to be so sadly betrayed;----

Ah, Dorcas!  I was basely drawn in!  My youth--my ignorance of the world
--and I have some things to reproach myself with when I look back.

Lord, Madam, what deceitful creatures are these men!--Neither oaths, nor
vows--I am sure!  I am sure! [and then with her apron she gave her eyes
half a dozen hearty rubs] I may curse the time that I came into this
house!

Here was accounting for her bold eyes!  And was it not better for Dorcas
to give up a house which her lady could not think worse of than she did,
in order to gain the reputation of sincerity, than by offering to
vindicate it, to make her proffered services suspected.

Poor Dorcas!--Bless me! how little do we, who have lived all our time in
the country, know of this wicked town!

Had I been able to write, cried the veteran wench, I should certainly
have given some other near relations I have in Wales a little inkling of
matters; and they would have saved me from----from----from----

Her sobs were enough.  The apprehensions of women on such subjects are
ever aforehand with speech.

And then, sobbing on, she lifted her apron to her face again.  She showed
me how.

Poor Dorcas!--Again wiping her own charming eyes.

All love, all compassion, is this dear creature to every one in
affliction but me.

And would not an aunt protect her kinswoman?--Abominable wretch!

I can't--I can't--I can't--say, my aunt was privy to it.  She gave me
good advice.  She knew not for a great while that I was--that I was--that
I was--ugh!--ugh!--ugh!--

No more, no more, good Dorcas--What a world do we live in!--What a house
am I in!--But come, don't weep, (though she herself could not forbear:)
my being betrayed into it, though to my own ruin, may be a happy event
for thee: and, if I live, it shall.

I thank you, my good lady, blubbering.  I am sorry, very sorry, you have
had so hard a lot.  But it may be the saving of my soul, if I can get to
your ladyship's house.  Had I but known that your ladyship was not
married, I would have eat my own flesh, before----before----before----

Dorcas sobbed and wept.  The lady sighed and wept also.

But now, Jack, for a serious reflection upon the premises.

How will the good folks account for it, that Satan has such faithful
instruments, and that the bond of wickedness is a stronger bond than the
ties of virtue; as if it were the nature of the human mind to be villanous?
For here, had Dorcas been good, and been tempted as she was tempted to any
thing evil, I make no doubt but she would have yielded to the temptation.

And cannot our fraternity in an hundred instances give proof of the like
predominance of vice over virtue?  And that we have risked more to serve
and promote the interests of the former, than ever a good man did to
serve a good man or a good cause?  For have we not been prodigal of life
and fortune? have we not defied the civil magistrate upon occasion? and
have we not attempted rescues, and dared all things, only to extricate a
pounded profligate?

Whence, Jack, can this be?

O! I have it, I believe.  The vicious are as bad as they can be; and do
the Devil's work without looking after; while he is continually spreading
snares for the others; and, like a skilful angler, suiting his baits to
the fish he angles for.

Nor let even honest people, so called, blame poor Dorcas for her fidelity
in a bad cause.  For does not the general, who implicitly serves an
ambitious prince in his unjust designs upon his neighbours, or upon his
own oppressed subjects; and even the lawyer, who, for the sake of a
paltry fee, undertakes to whiten a black cause, and to defend it against
one he knows to be good, do the very same thing as Dorcas?  And are they
not both every whit as culpable?  Yet the one shall be dubbed a hero, the
other called an admirable fellow, and be contended for by every client,
and his double-tongued abilities shall carry him through all the high
preferments of the law with reputation and applause.

Well, but what shall be done, since the lady is so much determined on
removing!--Is there no way to oblige her, and yet to make the very act
subservient to my other views?  I fancy such a way may be found out.

I will study for it----

Suppose I suffer her to make an escape?  Her heart is in it.  If she
effect it, the triumph she will have over me upon it will be a
counterbalance for all she has suffered.

I will oblige her if I can.



LETTER XXVI

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.


Tired with a succession of fatiguing days and sleepless nights, and with
contemplating the precarious situation I stand in with my beloved, I fell
into a profound reverie; which brought on sleep; and that produced a
dream; a fortunate dream; which, as I imagine, will afford my working
mind the means to effect the obliging double purpose my heart is now once
more set upon.

What, as I have often contemplated, is the enjoyment of the finest woman
in the world, to the contrivance, the bustle, the surprises, and at last
the happy conclusion of a well-laid plot!--The charming round-abouts, to
come to the nearest way home;--the doubts; the apprehensions; the
heart-achings; the meditated triumphs--these are the joys that make the
blessing dear.--For all the rest, what is it?--What but to find an angel
in imagination dwindled down to a woman in fact?----But to my dream----

Methought it was about nine on Wednesday morning that a chariot, with a
dowager's arms upon the doors, and in it a grave matronly lady [not
unlike mother H. in the face; but, in her heart, Oh! how unlike!] stopped
at a grocer's shop, about ten doors on the other side of the way, in
order to buy some groceries: and methought Dorcas, having been out to see
if the coast were clear for her lady's flight, and if a coach were to be
got near the place, espied the chariot with the dowager's arms, and this
matronly lady: and what, methought, did Dorcas, that subtle traitress,
do, but whip up to the old matronly lady, and lifting up her voice, say,
Good my Lady, permit me one word with your Ladyship!

What thou hast to say to me, say on, quoth the old lady; the grocer
retiring, and standing aloof, to give Dorcas leave to speak; who,
methought, in words like these accosted the lady:

'You seem, Madam, to be a very good lady; and here, in this
neighbourhood, at a house of no high repute, is an innocent lady of rank
and fortune, beautiful as a May morning, and youthful as a rose-bud, and
full as sweet and lovely, who has been tricked thither by a wicked
gentleman, practised in the ways of the town, and this very night will
she be ruined if she get not out of his hands.  Now, O Lady! if you will
extend your compassionate goodness to this fair young lady, in whom, the
moment you behold her, you will see cause to believe all I say, and let
her but have a place in your chariot, and remain in your protection for
one day only, till she can send a man and horse to her rich and powerful
friends, you may save from ruin a lady who has no equal for virtue as
well as beauty.'

Methought the old lady, moved with Dorcas's story, answered and said,
'Hasten, O damsel, who in a happy moment art come to put it in my power
to serve the innocent and virtuous, which it has always been my delight
to do: hasten to this young lady, and bid her hie hither to me with all
speed; and tell her, that my chariot shall be her asylum: and if I find
all that thou sayest true, my house shall be her sanctuary, and I will
protect her from all her oppressors.'

Hereupon, methought, this traitress Dorcas hied back to the lady, and
made report of what she had done.  And, methought, the lady highly
approved of Dorcas's proceeding and blessed her for her good thought.

And I lifted up mine eyes, and behold the lady issued out of the house,
and without looking back, ran to the chariot with the dowager's coat upon
it; and was received by the matronly lady with open arms, and 'Welcome,
welcome, welcome, fair young lady, who so well answer the description of
the faithful damsel: and I will carry you instantly to my house, where
you shall meet with all the good usage your heart can wish for, till you
can apprize your rich and powerful friends of your past dangers, and
present escape.'

'Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you, worthy, thrice worthy lady,
who afford so kindly your protection to a most unhappy young creature,
who has been basely seduced and betrayed, and brought to the very brink
of destruction.'

Methought, then, the matronly lady, who had, by the time the young lady
came to her, bought and paid for the goods she wanted, ordered her
coachman to drive home with all speed; who stopped not till he had
arrived in a certain street not far from Lincoln's-inn-fields, where the
matronly lady lived in a sumptuous dwelling, replete with damsels who
wrought curiously in muslins, cambrics, and fine linen, and in every good
work that industrious damsels love to be employed about, except the loom
and the spinning-wheel.

And, methought, all the way the young lady and the old lady rode, and
after they came in, till dinner was ready, the young lady filled up the
time with the dismal account of her wrongs and her sufferings, the like
of which was never heard by mortal ear; and this in so moving a manner,
that the good old lady did nothing but weep, and sigh, and sob, and
inveigh against the arts of wicked men, and against that abominable
'Squire Lovelace, who was a plotting villain, methought she said; and
more than that, an unchained Beelzebub.

Methought I was in a dreadful agony, when I found the lady had escaped,
and in my wrath had like to have slain Dorcas, and our mother, and every
one I met.  But, by some quick transition, and strange metamorphosis,
which dreams do not usually account for, methought, all of a sudden, this
matronly lady turned into the famous mother H. herself; and, being an old
acquaintance of mother Sinclair, was prevailed upon to assist in my plot
upon the young lady.

Then, methought, followed a strange scene; for mother H. longing to hear
more of the young lady's story, and night being come, besought her to
accept of a place in her own bed, in order to have all the talk to
themselves.  For, methought, two young nieces of her's had broken in upon
them, in the middle of the dismal tale.

Accordingly, going early to bed, and the sad story being resumed, with as
great earnestness on one side as attention on the other, before the young
lady had gone far in it, mother H. methought was taken with a fit of the
colic; and her tortures increasing, was obliged to rise to get a cordial
she used to find specific in this disorder, to which she was unhappily
subject.

Having thus risen, and stept to her closet, methought she let fall the
wax taper in her return; and then [O metamorphosis still stranger than
the former! what unaccountable things are dreams!] coming to bed again in
the dark, the young lady, to her infinite astonishment, grief, and
surprise, found mother H. turned into a young person of the other sex;
and although Lovelace was the abhorred of her soul, yet, fearing it was
some other person, it was matter of consolation to her, when she found it
was no other than himself, and that she had been still the bed-fellow of
but one and the same man.

A strange promiscuous huddle of adventures followed, scenes perpetually
shifting; now nothing heard from the lady, but sighs, groans,
exclamations, faintings, dyings--From the gentleman, but vows, promises,
protestations, disclaimers of purposes pursued, and all the gentle and
ungentle pressures of the lover's warfare.

Then, as quick as thought (for dreams, thou knowest confine not
themselves to the rules of the drama) ensued recoveries, lyings-in,
christenings, the smiling boy, amply, even in her own opinion, rewarding
the suffering mother.

Then the grandfather's estate yielded up, possession taken of it: living
very happily upon it: her beloved Norton her companion; Miss Howe her
visiter; and (admirable! thrice admirable!) enabled to compare notes with
her; a charming girl, by the same father, to her friend's charming boy;
who, as they grow up, in order to consolidate their mamma's friendships,
(for neither have dreams regard to consanguinity,) intermarry; change
names by act of parliament, to enjoy my estate--and I know not what of
the like incongruous stuff.

I awoke, as thou mayest believe, in great disorder, and rejoiced to find
my charmer in the next room, and Dorcas honest.

Now thou wilt say this was a very odd dream.  And yet, (for I am a
strange dreamer,) it is not altogether improbable that something like it
may happen; as the pretty simpleton has the weakness to confide in
Dorcas, whom till now she disliked.

But I forgot to tell thee one part of my dream; and that was, that, the
next morning, the lady gave way to such transports of grief and
resentment, that she was with difficulty diverted from making an attempt
upon her own life.  But, however, at last was prevailed upon to resolve
to live, and make the best of the matter: a letter, methought, from
Captain Tomlinson helping to pacify her, written to apprize me, that her
uncle Harlowe would certainly be at Kentish-town on Wednesday night, June
28, the following day (the 29th) being his birth-day; and be doubly
desirous, on that account, that our nuptials should be then privately
solemnized in his presence.

But is Thursday, the 29th, her uncle's anniversary, methinks thou askest?
--It is; or else the day of celebration should have been earlier still.
Three weeks ago I heard her say it was: and I have down the birthday of
every one in the family, and the wedding-day of her father and mother.
The minutest circumstances are often of great service in matters of the
last importance.

And what sayest thou now to my dream?

Who says that, sleeping and waking, I have not fine helps from somebody,
some spirit rather, as thou'lt be apt to say?  But no wonder that a
Beelzebub has his devilkins to attend his call.

I can have no manner of doubt of succeeding in mother H.'s part of the
scheme; for will the lady (who resolves to throw herself into the first
house she can enter, or to bespeak the protection of the first person she
meets, and who thinks there can be no danger out of this house, equal to
what she apprehends from me in it) scruple to accept of the chariot of a
dowager, accidentally offered? and the lady's protection engaged by her
faithful Dorcas, so highly bribed to promote her escape?--And then Mrs.
H. has the air and appearance of a venerable matron, and is not such a
forbidding devil as Mrs. Sinclair.

The pretty simpleton knows nothing in the world; nor that people who have
money never want assistants in their views, be they what they will.  How
else could the princes of the earth be so implicitly served as they are,
change they hands every so often, and be their purposes ever so wicked.

If I can but get her to go on with me till Wednesday next week, we shall
be settled together pretty quietly by that time.  And indeed if she has
any gratitude, and has in her the least of her sex's foibles, she must
think I deserve her favour, by the pains she has cost me.  For dearly do
they all love that men should take pains about them and for them.

And here, for the present, I will lay down my pen, and congratulate
myself upon my happy invention (since her obstinacy puts me once more
upon exercising it.)--But with this resolution, I think, that, if the
present contrivance fail me, I will exert all the faculties of my mind,
all my talents, to procure for myself a regal right to her favour and
that in defiance of all my antipathies to the married state; and of the
suggestions of the great devil out of the house, and of his secret agents
in it.--Since, if now she is not to be prevailed upon, or drawn in, it
will be in vain to attempt her further.



LETTER XXVII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
TUESDAY NIGHT, JUNE 20.


No admittance yet to my charmer! she is very ill--in a violent fever,
Dorcas thinks.  Yet will have no advice.

Dorcas tells her how much I am concerned at it.

But again let me ask, Does this lady do right to make herself ill, when
she is not ill?  For my own part, libertine as people think me, when I
had occasion to be sick, I took a dose of ipecacuanha, that I might not
be guilty of a falsehood; and most heartily sick was I; as she, who
then pitied me, full well knew.  But here to pretend to be very ill,
only to get an opportunity to run away, in order to avoid forgiving a
man who has offended her, how unchristian!--If good folks allow
themselves in these breaches of a known duty, and in these presumptuous
contrivances to deceive, who, Belford, shall blame us?

I have a strange notion that the matronly lady will be certainly at the
grocer's shop at the hour of nine tomorrow morning: for Dorcas heard me
tell Mrs. Sinclair, that I should go out at eight precisely; and then
she is to try for a coach: and if the dowager's chariot should happen
to be there, how lucky will it be for my charmer! how strangely will my
dream be made out!


***


I have just received a letter from Captain Tomlinson.  Is it not
wonderful? for that was part of my dream.

I shall always have a prodigious regard to dreams henceforward.  I know
not but I may write a book upon that subject; for my own experience
will furnish out a great part of it.  'Glanville of Witches,' 'Baxter's
History of Spirits and Apparitions,' and the 'Royal Pedant's Demonology,'
will be nothing at all to Lovelace's Reveries.

The letter is just what I dreamed it to be.  I am only concerned that
uncle John's anniversary did not happen three or four days sooner; for
should any new misfortune befal my charmer, she may not be able to
support her spirits so long as till Thursday in the next week.  Yet it
will give me the more time for new expedients, should my present
contrivance fail; which I cannot however suppose.


TO ROBERT LOVELACE, ESQ.
MONDAY, JUNE 19.

Dear Sir,

I can now return your joy, for the joy you have given me, as well as my
dear friend Mr. Harlowe, in the news of his beloved niece's happy
recovery; for he is determined to comply with her wishes and your's,
and to give her to you with his own hand.

As the ceremony has been necessarily delayed by reason of her illness,
and as Mr. Harlowe's birth-day is on Thursday the 29th of this instant
June, when he enters into the seventy-fourth year of his age; and as
time may be wanted to complete the dear lady's recovery; he is very
desirous that the marriage shall be solemnized upon it; that he may
afterwards have double joy on that day to the end of his life.

For this purpose he intends to set out privately, so as to be at
Kentish-town on Wednesday se'nnight in the evening.

All the family used, he says, to meet to celebrate it with him; but as
they are at present in too unhappy a situation for that, he will give
out, that, not being able to bear the day at home, he has resolved to
be absent for two or three days.

He will set out on horseback, attended only with one trusty servant,
for the greater privacy.  He will be at the most creditable-looking
public house there, expecting you both next morning, if he hear nothing
from me to prevent him.  And he will go to town with you after the
ceremony is performed, in the coach he supposes you will come in.

He is very desirous that I should be present on the occasion.  But this
I have promised him, at his request, that I will be up before the day,
in order to see the settlements executed, and every thing properly
prepared.

He is very glad you have the license ready.

He speaks very kindly of you, Mr. Lovelace; and says, that, if any of
the family stand out after he has seen the ceremony performed, he will
separate from them, and unite himself to his dear niece and her
interests.

I owned to you, when in town last, that I took slight notice to my dear
friend of the misunderstanding between you and his niece; and that I
did this, for fear the lady should have shown any little discontent in
his presence, had I been able to prevail upon him to go up in person,
as then was doubtful.  But I hope nothing of that discontent remains
now.

My absence, when your messenger came, must excuse me for not writing by
him.

Be pleased to make my most respectful compliments acceptable to the
admirable lady, and believe me to be

Your most faithful and obedient servant,
ANTONY TOMLINSON.


***


This letter I sealed, and broke open.  It was brought, thou mayest
suppose, by a particular messenger; the seal such a one as the writer
need be ashamed of.  I took care to inquire after the Captain's health,
in my beloved's hearing; and it is now ready to be produced as a
pacifier, according as she shall take on or resent, if the two
metamorphoses happen pursuant to my wonderful dream; as, having great
faith in dreams, I dare say they will.--I think it will not be amiss,
in changing my clothes, to have this letter of the worthy Captain lie
in my beloved's way.



LETTER XXVIII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
WEDN. NOON, JUNE 21.


What shall I say now!--I, who but a few hours ago had such faith in
dreams, and had proposed out of hand to begin my treatise of dreams
sleeping and dreams waking, and was pleasing myself with the dialogues
between the old matronal lady and the young lady, and with the
metamorphoses, (absolutely assured that every thing would happen as my
dream chalked it out,) shall never more depend upon those flying follies,
those illusions of a fancy depraved, and run mad.

Thus confoundedly have matters happened.

I went out at eight o'clock in high good humour with myself, in order
to give the sought-for opportunity to the plotting mistress and corrupted
maid; only ordering Will. to keep a good look-out for fear his lady
should mistrust my plot, or mistake a hackney-coach for the
dowager-lady's chariot.  But first I sent to know how she did; and
receiving for answer, Very ill: had a very bad night: which latter was but
too probable; since this I know, that people who have plots in their heads
as seldom have as deserve good ones.

I desired a physician might be called in; but was refused.

I took a walk in St. James's Park, congratulating myself all the way on
my rare inventions: then, impatient, I took coach, with one of the
windows quite up, the other almost up, playing at bo-peep in every
chariot I saw pass in my way to Lincoln's-inn-fields: and when arrived
there I sent the coachman to desire any one of Mother H.'s family to
come to me to the coach-side, not doubting but I should have
intelligence of my fair fugitive there; it being then half an hour
after ten.

A servant came, who gave me to understand that the matronly lady was
just returned by herself in the chariot.

Frighted out of my wits, I alighted, and heard from the mother's own
mouth, that Dorcas had engaged her to protect the lady; but came to
tell her afterwards, that she had changed her mind, and would not quit
the house.

Quite astonished, not knowing what might have happened, I ordered the
coachman to lash away to our mother's.

Arriving here in an instant, the first word I asked, was, If the lady
was safe?

[Mr. Lovelace here gives a very circumstantial relation of all that
   passed between the Lady and Dorcas.  But as he could only guess at her
   motives for refusing to go off, when Dorcas told her that she had
   engaged for her the protection of the dowager-lady, it is thought
   proper to omit this relation, and to supply it by some memoranda of
   the Lady's.  But it is first necessary to account for the occasion on
   which those memoranda were made.

The reader may remember, that in the letter written to Miss Howe, on
   her escape to Hampstead,* she promises to give her the particulars of
   her flight at leisure.  She had indeed thoughts of continuing her
   account of every thing that had passed between her and Mr. Lovelace
   since her last narrative letter.  But the uncertainty she was in from
   that time, with the execrable treatment she met with on her being
   deluded back again, followed by a week's delirium, had hitherto
   hindered her from prosecuting her intention.  But, nevertheless,
   having it still in her view to perform her promise as soon as she had
   opportunity, she made minutes of every thing as it passed, in order to
   help her memory:--'Which,' as she observes in one place, 'she could
   less trust to since her late disorders than before.'  In these
   minutes, or book of memoranda, she observes, 'That having
   apprehensions that Dorcas might be a traitress, she would have got
   away while she was gone out to see for a coach; and actually slid down
   stairs with that intent.  But that, seeing Mrs. Sinclair in the entry,
   (whom Dorcas had planted there while she went out,) she speeded up
   again unseen.'


* See Vol. V. Letter XXI.


She then went up to the dining-room, and saw the letter of Captain
   Tomlinson: on which she observes in her memorandum-book as follows:]

'How am I puzzled now!--He might leave this letter on purpose: none of
the other papers left with it being of any consequence: What is the
alternative?--To stay, and be the wife of the vilest of men--how my
heart resists that!--To attempt to get off, and fail, ruin inevitable!--
Dorcas may betray me!--I doubt she is still his implement!--At his going
out, he whispered her, as I saw, unobserved--in a very familiar manner
too--Never fear, Sir, with a courtesy.

'In her agreeing to connive at my escape, she provided not for her own
safety, if I got away: yet had reason, in that case, to expect his
vengeance.  And wants not forethought.--To have taken her with me, was
to be in the power of her intelligence, if a faithless creature.--Let
me, however, though I part not with my caution, keep my charity!--Can
there be any woman so vile to a woman?--O yes!--Mrs. Sinclair: her
aunt.--The Lord deliver me!--But, alas!--I have put myself out of the
course of his protection by the natural means--and am already ruined!
A father's curse likewise against me!  Having made vain all my friends'
cautions and solicitudes, I must not hope for miracles in my favour!

'If I do escape, what may become of me, a poor, helpless, deserted
creature!--Helpless from sex!--from circumstances!--Exposed to every
danger!--Lord protect me!

'His vile man not gone with him!--Lurking hereabouts, no doubt, to
watch my steps!--I will not go away by the chariot, however.----

'That the chariot should come so opportunely!  So like his many
opportunities!--That Dorcas should have the sudden thought!--Should
have the courage with the thought, to address a lady in behalf of an
absolute stranger to that lady!  That the lady should so readily
consent!  Yet the transaction between them to take up so much time,
their distance in degree considered: for, arduous as the case was, and
precious as the time, Dorcas was gone above half an hour!  Yet the
chariot was said to be ready at a grocer's not many doors off!

'Indeed some elderly ladies are talkative: and there are, no doubt,
some good people in the world.----

'But that it should chance to be a widow lady, who could do what she
pleased!  That Dorcas should know her to be so by the lozenge!  Persons
in her station are not usually so knowing, I believe, in heraldry.

'Yet some may! for servants are fond of deriving collateral honours and
distinctions, as I may call them, from the quality, or people of rank,
whom they serve.  But this sly servant not gone with him!  Then this
letter of Tomlinson!----

'Although I am resolved never to have this wretch, yet, may I not throw
myself into my uncle's protection at Kentish-town, or Highgate, if I
cannot escape before: and so get clear of him?  May not the evil I know
be less than what I may fall into, if I can avoid farther villany?
Farther villany he has not yet threatened; freely and justly as I have
treated him!--I will not go, I think.  At least, unless I can send this
fellow away.*----


* She tried to do this; but was prevented by the fellow's pretending to
put his ankle out, by a slip down stairs--A trick, says his contriving
master, in his omitted relation, I had taught him, on a like occasion,
at Amiens.


'The fellow a villain!  The wench, I doubt, a vile wench.  At last
concerned for her own safety.  Plays off and on about a coach.

'All my hopes of getting off at present over!--Unhappy creature! to what
farther evils art thou reserved!  Oh! how my heart rises at the necessity
I must still be under to see and converse with so very vile a man!'



LETTER XXIX

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
WEDNESDAY AFTERNOON.


Disappointed in her meditated escape; obliged, against her will, to
meet me in the dining-room; and perhaps apprehensive of being upbraided
for her art in feigning herself ill; I expected that the dear perverse
would begin with me with spirit and indignation.  But I was in hopes,
from the gentleness of her natural disposition; from the consideration
which I expected from her on her situation; from the contents of the
letter of Captain Tomlinson, which Dorcas told me she had seen; and
from the time she had had to cool and reflect since she last admitted
me to her presence, that she would not have carried it so strongly
through as she did.

As I entered the dining-room, I congratulated her and myself upon her
sudden recovery.  And would have taken her hand, with an air of
respectful tenderness; but she was resolved to begin where she left
off.

She turned from me, drawing in her hand, with a repulsing and indignant
aspect--I meet you once more, said she, because I cannot help it.  What
have you to say to me?  Why am I to be thus detained against my will?

With the utmost solemnity of speech and behaviour, I urged the ceremony.
I saw I had nothing else for it.  I had a letter in my pocket I said,
[feeling for it, although I had not taken it from the table where I left
it in the same room,] the contents of which, if attended to, would make
us both happy.  I had been loth to show it to her before, because I hoped
to prevail upon her to be mine sooner than the day mentioned in it.

I felt for it in all my pockets, watching her eye mean time, which I saw
glance towards the table where it lay.

I was uneasy that I could not find it--at last, directed again by her sly
eye, I spied it on the table at the farther end of the room.

With joy I fetched it.  Be pleased to read that letter, Madam; with an
air of satisfied assurance.

She took it, and cast her eye over it, in such a careless way, as made it
evident, that she had read it before: and then unthankfully tossed it
into the window-seat before her.

I urged her to bless me to-morrow, or Friday morning; at least, that she
would not render vain her uncle's journey, and kind endeavours to bring
about a reconciliation among us all.

Among us all! repeated she, with an air equally disdainful and
incredulous.  O Lovelace, thou art surely nearly allied to the grand
deceiver, in thy endeavour to suit temptations to inclinations?--But what
honour, what faith, what veracity, were it possible that I could enter
into parley with thee on this subject, (which it is not,) may I expect
from such a man as thou hast shown thyself to be?

I was touched to the quick.  A lady of your perfect character, Madam, who
has feigned herself sick, on purpose to avoid seeing the man who adored
her, should not--

I know what thou wouldst say, interrupted she--Twenty and twenty low
things, that my soul would have been above being guilty of, and which I
have despised myself for, have I been brought into by the infection of
thy company, and by the necessity thou hadst laid me under, of appearing
mean.  But, I thank God, destitute as I am, that I am not, however, sunk
so low, as to wish to be thine.

I, Madam, as the injurer, ought to have patience.  It is for the injured
to reproach.  But your uncle is not in a plot against you, it is to be
hoped.  There are circumstances in the letter you cast your eyes over----

Again she interrupted me, Why, once more I ask you, am I detained in this
house?--Do I not see myself surrounded by wretches, who, though they wear
the habit of my sex, may yet, as far as I know, lie in wait for my
perdition?

She would be very loth, I said, that Mrs. Sinclair and her nieces should
be called up to vindicate themselves and their house.

Would but they kill me, let them come, and welcome, I will bless the hand
that will strike the blow!  Indeed I will.

'Tis idle, very idle, to talk of dying.  Mere young-lady talk, when
controuled by those they hate.  But let me beseech you, dearest creature
----

Beseech me nothing.  Let me not be detained thus against my will!--
Unhappy creature that I am, said she, in a kind of phrensy, wringing her
hands at the same time, and turning from me, her eyes lifted up!  'Thy
curse, O my cruel father, seems to be now in the height of its operation!
--My weakened mind is full of forebodings, that I am in the way of being
a lost creature as to both worlds!  Blessed, blessed God, said she,
falling on her knees, save me, O save me, from myself and from this man!'

I sunk down on my knees by her, excessively affecting--O that I could
recall yesterday!--Forgive me, my dearest creature, forgive what is past,
as it cannot now, but by one way, be retrieved.  Forgive me only on this
condition--That my future faith and honour--

She interrupted me, rising--If you mean to beg of me never to seek to
avenge myself by law, or by an appeal to my relations, to my cousin
Morden in particular, when he comes to England----

D--n the law, rising also, [she started,] and all those to whom you talk
of appealing!--I defy both the one and the other--All I beg is YOUR
forgiveness; and that you will, on my unfeigned contrition, re-establish
me in your favour----

O no, no, no! lifting up her clasped hands, I never never will, never,
never can forgive you!--and it is a punishment worse than death to me,
that I am obliged to meet you, or to see you.

This is the last time, my dearest life, that you will ever see me in this
posture, on this occasion: and again I kneeled to her.  Let me hope, that
you will be mine next Thursday, your uncle's birth-day, if not before.
Would to Heaven I had never been a villain!  Your indignation is not,
cannot be greater, than my remorse--and I took hold of her gown for she
was going from me.

Be remorse thy portion!--For thine own sake, be remorse thy portion!--I
never, never will forgive thee!--I never, never will be thine!--Let me
retire!--Why kneelest thou to the wretch whom thou hast so vilely humbled?

Say but, dearest creature, you will consider--say but you will take time
to reflect upon what the honour of both our families requires of you.  I
will not rise.  I will not permit you to withdraw [still holding her
gown] till you tell me you will consider.--Take this letter.  Weigh well
your situation, and mine.  Say you will withdraw to consider; and then I
will not presume to withold [sic] you.

Compulsion shall do nothing with me.  Though a slave, a prisoner, in
circumstance, I am no slave in my will!--Nothing will I promise thee!--
Withheld, compelled--nothing will I promise thee!

Noble creature! but not implacable, I hope!--Promise me but to return in
an hour!

Nothing will I promise thee!

Say but that you will see me again this evening!

O that I could say--that it were in my power to say--I never will see
thee more!--Would to Heaven I never were to see thee more!

Passionate beauty!--still holding her--

I speak, though with vehemence, the deliberate wish of my heart.--O that
I could avoid looking down upon thee, mean groveler, and abject as
insulting--Let me withdraw!  My soul is in tumults!  Let we [sic]
withdraw!

I quitted my hold to clasp my hands together--Withdraw, O sovereign of my
fate!--Withdraw, if you will withdraw!  My destiny is in your power!--It
depends upon your breath!--Your scorn but augments my love!  Your
resentment is but too well founded!--But, dearest creature, return,
return, return, with a resolution to bless with pardon and peace your
faithful adorer!

She flew from me.  The angel, as soon as she found her wings, flew from
me.  I, the reptile kneeler, the despicable slave, no more the proud
victor, arose; and, retiring, tried to comfort myself, that,
circumstanced as she is, destitute of friends and fortune; her uncle
moreover, who is to reconcile all so soon, (as I thank my stars she still
believes,) expected.

O that she would forgive me!--Would she but generously forgive me, and
receive my vows at the altar, at the instant of her forgiving me, that I
might not have time to relapse into my old prejudices!  By my soul,
Belford, this dear girl gives the lie to all our rakish maxims.  There
must be something more than a name in virtue!--I now see that there is!--
Once subdued, always subdued--'Tis an egregious falsehood!--But, O Jack,
she never was subdued.  What have I obtained but an increase of shame and
confusion!--While her glory has been established by her sufferings!

This one merit is, however, left me, that I have laid all her sex under
obligation to me, by putting this noble creature to trials, which, so
gloriously supported, have done honour to them all.

However--But no more will I add--What a force have evil habits!--I will
take an airing, and try to fly from myself!--Do not thou upbraid me on my
weak fits--on my contradictory purposes--on my irresolution--and all will
be well.



LETTER XXX

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
WEDNESDAY NIGHT.


A man is just now arrived from M. Hall, who tells me, that my Lord is in
a very dangerous way.  The gout in his stomach to an extreme degree,
occasioned by drinking a great quantity of lemonade.

A man of 8000£. a year to prefer his appetite to his health!--He deserves
to die!--But we have all of us our inordinate passions to gratify: and
they generally bring their punishment along with them--so
witnesses the nephew, as well as the uncle.

The fellow was sent upon other business; but stretched his orders a
little, to make his court to a successor.

I am glad I was not at M. Hall, at the time my Lord took the grateful
dose: [it was certainly grateful to him at the time:] there are people
in the world, who would have had the wickedness to say, that I had
persuaded him to drink.

The man says, that his Lordship was so bad when he came away, that the
family began to talk of sending for me in post haste.  As I know the
old peer has a good deal of cash by him, of which he seldom keeps
account, it behoves me to go down as soon as I can.  But what shall I
do with this dear creature the while?--To-morrow over, I shall, perhaps,
be able to answer my own question.  I am afraid she will make
me desperate.

For here have I sent to implore her company, and am denied with scorn.


***


I have been so happy as to receive, this moment, a third letter from
the dear correspondent Miss Howe.  A little severe devil!--It would
have broken the heart of my beloved, had it fallen into her hands.  I
will enclose a copy of it.  Read it here.


TUESDAY, JUNE 20.

MY DEAREST MISS HARLOWE,

Again I venture to you, (almost against inclination;) and that by your
former conveyance, little as I like it.

I know not how it is with you.  It may be bad; and then it would be hard
to upbraid you, for a silence you may not be able to help.  But if not,
what shall I say severe enough, that you have not answered either of my
last letters? the first* of which [and I think it imported you too much
to be silent upon it] you owned the receipt of.  The other which was
delivered into your own hands,** was so pressing for the favour of a line
from you, that I am amazed I could not be obliged; and still more, that I
have not heard from you since.


* See Vol. V. Letter XX.
** See Vol. VI. Letter VII.


The fellow made so strange a story of the condition he saw you in, and
of your speech to him, that I know not what to conclude from it: only,
that he is a simple, blundering, and yet conceited fellow, who, aiming
at description, and the rustic wonderful, gives an air of bumkinly
romance to all he tells.  That this is his character, you will believe,
when you are informed that he described you in grief excessive,* yet so
improved in your person and features, and so rosy, that was his word,
in your face, and so flush-coloured, and so plump in your arms, that
one would conclude you were labouring under the operation of some
malignant poison; and so much the rather, as he was introduced to you,
when you were upon a couch, from which you offered not to rise, or sit
up.


* See Vol. VI. Letter VI.


Upon my word, Miss Harlowe, I am greatly distressed upon your account;
for I must be so free as to say, that in your ready return with your
deceiver, you have not at all answered my expectations, nor acted up to
your own character; for Mrs. Townsend tells me, from the women at
Hampstead, how cheerfully you put yourself into his hands again: yet, at
the time, it was impossible you should be married!--

Lord, my dear, what pity it is, that you took much pains to get from
the man!--But you know best!--Sometimes I think it could not be you to
whom the rustic delivered my letter.  But it must too: yet, it is strange
I could not have one line by him:--not one:--and you so soon well enough
to go with the wretch back again!

I am not sure that the letter I am now writing will come to your hands:
so shall not say half that I have upon my mind to say.  But, if you
think it worth your while to write to me, pray let me know what fine
ladies his relations those were who visited you at Hampstead, and carried
you back again so joyfully to a place that I had so fully warned you.--
But I will say no more: at least till I know more: for I can do nothing
but wonder and stand amazed.

Notwithstanding all the man's baseness, 'tis plain there was more than
a lurking love--Good Heaven!--But I have done!--Yet I know not how to
have done neither!--Yet I must--I will.

Only account to me, my dear, for what I cannot at all account for: and
inform me, whether you are really married, or not.--And then I shall
know whether there must or must not, be a period shorter than that of
one of our lives, to a friendship which has hitherto been the pride and
boast of

Your
ANNA HOWE.


***


Dorcas tells me, that she has just now had a searching conversation, as
she calls it, with her lady.  She is willing, she tells the wench, still
to place her confidence in her.  Dorcas hopes she has re-assured her: but
wishes me not to depend upon it.  Yet Captain Tomlinson's letter must
assuredly weigh with her.

I sent it in just now by Dorcas, desiring her to re-peruse it.  And it
was not returned me, as I feared it would be.  And that's a good sign,
I think.

I say I think, and I think; for this charming creature, entangled as I
am in my own inventions, puzzles me ten thousand times more than I her.



LETTER XXXI

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
THURSDAY NOON, JUNE 22.


Let me perish if I know what to make either of myself or of this
surprising creature--now calm, now tempestuous.--But I know thou lovest
not anticipation any more than I.

At my repeated requests, she met me at six this morning.

She was ready dressed; for she had not her clothes off every since she
declared, that they never more should be off in this house.  And
charmingly she looked, with all the disadvantages of a three-hours
violent stomach-ache--(for Dorcas told me that she had been really ill)--
no rest, and eyes red and swelled with weeping.  Strange to me that those
charming fountains have not been so long ago exhausted!  But she is a
woman.  And I believe anatomists allow, that women have more watry heads
than men.

Well, my dearest creature, I hope you have now thoroughly considered of
the contents of Captain Tomlinson's letter.  But as we are thus early
met, let me beseech you to make this my happy day.

She looked not favourably upon me.  A cloud hung upon her brow at her
entrance: but as she was going to answer me, a still greater solemnity
took possession of her charming features.

Your air, and your countenance, my beloved creature, are not propitious
to me.  Let me beg of you, before you speak, to forbear all further
recriminations: for already I have such a sense of my vileness to you,
that I know not how to bear the reproaches of my own mind.

I have been endeavouring, said she, since I am not permitted to avoid
you, to obtain a composure which I never more expected to see you in.
How long I may enjoy it, I cannot tell.  But I hope I shall be enabled
to speak to you without that vehemence which I expressed yesterday, and
could not help it.*


* The Lady, in her minutes, says, 'I fear Dorcas is a false one.  May I
not be able to prevail upon him to leave me at my liberty?  Better to
try than to trust to her.  If I cannot prevail, but must meet him and
my uncle, I hope I shall have fortitude enough to renounce him then.
But I would fain avoid qualifying with the wretch, or to give him an
expectation which I intend not to answer.  If I am mistress of my own
resolutions, my uncle himself shall not prevail with me to bind my soul
in covenant with so vile a man.'


After a pause (for I was all attention) thus she proceeded:

It is easy for me, Mr. Lovelace, to see that further violences are
intended me, if I comply not with your purposes, whatever they are, I
will suppose them to be what you solemnly profess they are.  But I have
told you as solemnly my mind, that I never will, that I never can be
your's; nor, if so, any man's upon earth.  All vengeance, nevertheless,
for the wrongs you have done me, I disclaim.  I want but to slide into
some obscure corner, to hide myself from you and from every one who
once loved me.  The desire lately so near my heart, of a reconciliation
with my friends, is much abated.  They shall not receive me now, if they
would.  Sunk in mine own eyes, I now think myself unworthy of their
favour.  In the anguish of my soul, therefore, I conjure you, Lovelace,
[tears in her eyes,] to leave me to my fate.  In doing so, you will give
me a pleasure the highest I now can know.

Where, my dearest life----

No matter where.  I will leave to Providence, when I am out of this
house, the direction of my future steps.  I am sensible enough of my
destitute condition.  I know that I have not now a friend in the world.
Even Miss Howe has given me up--or you are--But I would fain keep my
temper!--By your means I have lost them all--and you have been a
barbarous enemy to me.  You know you have.

She paused.

I could not speak.

The evils I have suffered, proceeded she, [turning from me,] however
irreparable, are but temporarily evils.  Leave me to my hopes of being
enabled to obtain the Divine forgiveness for the offence I have been
drawn in to give to my parents and to virtue; that so I may avoid the
evils that are more than temporary.  This is now all I have to wish
for.  And what is it that I demand, that I have not a right to, and
from which it is an illegal violence to withhold me?

It was impossible for me, I told her plainly, to comply.

I besought her to give me her hand as this very day.  I could not live
without her.  I communicated to her my Lord's illness, as a reason why
I wished not to stay for her uncle's anniversary.  I besought her to
bless me with her consent; and, after the ceremony was passed, to
accompany me down to Berks.  And thus, my dearest life, said I, will
you be freed from a house, to which you have conceived so great an
antipathy.

This, thou wilt own, was a princely offer.  And I was resolved to be as
good as my word.  I thought I had killed my conscience, as I told thee,
Belford, some time ago.  But conscience, I find, though it may be
temporarily stifled, cannot die, and, when it dare not speak aloud, will
whisper.  And at this instant I thought I felt the revived varletess (on
but a slight retrograde motion) writhing round my pericardium like a
serpent; and in the action of a dying one, (collecting all its force into
its head,) fix its plaguy fangs into my heart.

She hesitated, and looked down, as if irresolute.  And this set my
heart up at my mouth.  And, believe me, I had instantly popt in upon
me, in imagination, an old spectacled parson, with a white surplice
thrown over a black habit, [a fit emblem of the halcyon office, which,
under a benign appearance, often introduced a life of storms and
tempests,] whining and snuffling through his nose the irrevocable
ceremony.

I hope now, my dearest life, said I, snatching her hand, and pressing
it to my lips, that your silence bodes me good.  Let me, my beloved
creature, have but your tacit consent; and this moment I will step out
and engage a minister.  And then I promised how much my whole future
life should be devoted to her commands, and that I would make her the
best and tenderest of husbands.

At last, turning to me, I have told you my mind, Mr. Lovelace, said she.
Think you, that I could thus solemnly--There she stopt--I am too much in
your power, proceeded she; your prisoner, rather than a person free to
choose for myself, or to say what I will do or be.  But as a testimony
that you mean me well, let me instantly quit this house; and I will then
give you such an answer in writing, as best befits my unhappy
circumstances.

And imaginest thou, fairest, thought I, that this will go down with a
Lovelace?  Thou oughtest to have known that free-livers, like ministers
of state, never part with a power put into their hands, without an
equivalent of twice the value.

I pleaded, that if we joined hands this morning, (if not, to-morrow; if
not, on Thursday, her uncle's birth-day, and in his presence); and
afterwards, as I had proposed, set out for Berks; we should, of course,
quit this house; and, on our return to town, should have in readiness
the house I was in treaty for.

She answered me not, but with tears and sighs; fond of believing what I
hoped I imputed her silence to the modesty of her sex.  The dear
creature, (thought I,) solemnly as she began with me, is ruminating, in
a sweet suspence, how to put into fit words the gentle purposes of her
condescending heart.  But, looking in her averted face with a soothing
gentleness, I plainly perceived, that it was resentment, and not
bashfulness, that was struggling in her bosom.*


* The Lady, in her minutes, owns the difficulty she lay under to keep
her temper in this conference.  'But when I found,' says she, 'that all
my entreaties were ineffectual, and that he was resolved to detain me,
I could no longer withhold my impatience.'


At last she broke silence--I have no patience, said she, to find myself
a slave, a prisoner, in a vile house--Tell me, Sir, in so many words
tell me, whether it be, or be not, your intention to permit me to quit
it?--To permit me the freedom which is my birthright as an English
subject?

Will not the consequence of your departure hence be that I shall lose
you for ever, Madam?--And can I bear the thoughts of that?

She flung from me--My soul disdains to hold parley with thee! were her
violent words.--But I threw myself at her feet, and took hold of her
reluctant hand, and began to imprecate, avow, to promise--But thus the
passionate beauty, interrupting me, went on:

I am sick of thee, MAN!--One continued string of vows, oaths, and
protestations, varied only by time and place, fills thy mouth!--Why
detainest thou me?  My heart rises against thee, O thou cruel implement
of my brother's causeless vengeance.--All I beg of thee is, that thou
wilt remit me the future part of my father's dreadful curse! the
temporary part, base and ungrateful as thou art! thou hast completed!

I was speechless!--Well I might!--Her brother's implement!--James
Harlowe's implement!--Zounds, Jack! what words were these!

I let go her struggling hand.  She took two or three turns cross the
room, her whole haughty soul in her air.  Then approaching me, but in
silence, turning from me, and again to me, in a milder voice--I see thy
confusion, Lovelace.  Or is it thy remorse?--I have but one request to
make thee--the request so often repeated--That thou wilt this moment
permit me to quit this house.  Adieu, then, let me say, for ever adieu!
And mayest thou enjoy that happiness in this world, which thou hast
robbed me of; as thou hast of every friend I have in it!

And saying this, away she flung, leaving me in a confusion so great, that
I knew not what to think, say, or do!

But Dorcas soon roused me--Do you know, Sir, running in hastily, that my
lady is gone down stairs!

No, sure!--And down I flew, and found her once more at the street-door,
contending with Polly Horton to get out.

She rushed by me into the fore parlour, and flew to the window, and
attempted once more to throw up the sash--Good people! good people! cried
she.

I caught her in my arms, and lifted her from the window.  But being
afraid of hurting the charming creature, (charming in her very rage,)
she slid through my arms on the floor.--Let me die here! let me die here!
were her words; remaining jointless and immovable, till Sally and Mrs.
Sinclair hurried in.

She was visibly terrified at the sight of the old wretch; while I
(sincerely affected) appealed, Bear witness, Mrs. Sinclair!--bear
witness, Miss Martin!--Miss Horton!--Every one bear witness, that I
offer not violence to this beloved creature!

She then found her feet--O house [look towards the windows, and all round
her, O house,] contrived on purpose for my ruin! said she--but let not
that woman come into my presence--not that Miss Horton neither, who would
not have dared to controul me, had she not been a base one!--

Hoh, Sir!  Hoh, Madam! vociferated the old dragon, her armed kemboed, and
flourishing with one foot to the extent of her petticoats--What's ado
here about nothing!  I never knew such work in my life, between a chicken
of a gentleman and a tiger of a lady!--

She was visibly affrighted: and up stairs she hastened.  A bad woman is
certainly, Jack, more terrible to her own sex than even a bad man.

I followed her up.  She rushed by her own apartment into the dining-room:
no terror can make her forget her punctilio.

To recite what passed there of invective, exclamations, threatenings,
even of her own life, on one side; of expostulations, supplications, and
sometimes menaces, on the other; would be too affecting; and, after my
particularity in like scenes, these things may as well be imagined as
expressed.

I will therefore only mention, that, at length, I extorted a concession
from her.  She had reason* to think it would have been worse for her on
the spot, if she had not made it.  It was, That she would endeavour to
make herself easy till she saw what next Thursday, her uncle's birth-day,
would produce.  But Oh! that it were not a sin, she passionately
exclaimed on making this poor concession, to put and end to her own life,
rather than yield to give me but that assurance!


* The Lady mentions, in her memorandum-book, that she had no other way,
as is apprehended, to save herself from instant dishonour, but by making
this concession.  Her only hope, now, she says, if she cannot escape by
Dorcas's connivance, (whom, nevertheless she suspects,) is to find a way
to engage the protection of her uncle, and even of the civil magistrate,
on Thursday next, if necessary.  'He shall see,' says she, 'tame and
timid as he thought me, what I dare to do, to avoid so hated a
compulsion, and a man capable of a baseness so premeditatedly vile and
inhuman.'


This, however, shows me, that she is aware that the reluctantly-given
assurance may be fairly construed into a matrimonial expectation on my
side.  And if she will now, even now, look forward, I think, from my
heart, that I will put on her livery, and wear it for life.

What a situation am I in, with all my cursed inventions!  I am puzzled,
confounded, and ashamed of myself, upon the whole.  To take such pains to
be a villain!--But (for the fiftieth time) let me ask thee, Who would
have thought that there had been such a woman in the world?--
Nevertheless, she had best take care that she carries not her obstinacy
much farther.  She knows not what revenge for slighted love will make me
do.

The busy scenes I have just passed through have given emotions to my
heart, which will not be quieted one while.  My heart, I see,
(on re-perusing what I have written,) has communicated its tremors to my
fingers; and in some places the characters are so indistinct and
unformed, that thou'lt hardly be able to make them out.  But if one half
of them is only intelligible, that will be enough to expose me to thy
contempt, for the wretched hand I have made of my plots and contrivances.
--But surely, Jack, I have gained some ground by this promise.

And now, one word to the assurances thou sendest me, that thou hast not
betrayed my secrets in relation to this charming creature.  Thou mightest
have spared them, Belford.  My suspicions held no longer than while I
wrote about them.*  For well I knew, when I allowed myself time to think,
that thou hadst no principles, no virtue, to be misled by.  A great deal
of strong envy, and a little of weak pity, I knew to be thy motives.
Thou couldst not provoke my anger, and my compassion thou ever hadst; and
art now more especially entitled to it; because thou art a pityful
fellow.

All thy new expostulations in my beloved's behalf I will answer when I
see thee.



LETTER XXXII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
THURSDAY NIGHT.


Confoundedly out of humour with this perverse woman!--Nor wilt thou blame
me, if thou art my friend.  She regards the concession she made, as a
concession extorted from her: and we are but just where we were before
she made it.

With great difficulty I prevailed upon her to favour me with her company
for one half hour this evening.  The necessity I was under to go down to
M. Hall was the subject I wanted to talk upon.

I told her, that as she had been so good as to promise that she would
endeavour to make herself easy till she saw the Thursday in next week
over, I hoped that she would not scruple to oblige me with her word, that
I should find her here at my return from M. Hall.

Indeed she would make no such promise.  Nothing of this house was
mentioned to me, said she: you know it was not.  And do you think that I
would have given my consent to my imprisonment in it?

I was plaguily nettled, and disappointed too.  If I go not down to Mr.
Hall, Madam, you'll have no scruple to stay here, I suppose, till
Thursday is over?

If I cannot help myself I must--but I insist upon being permitted to go
out of this house, whether you leave it or not.

Well, Madam, then I will comply with your commands.  And I will go out
this very evening in quest of lodgings that you shall have no objections
to.

I will have no lodgings of your providing, Sir--I will go to Mrs.
Moore's, at Hampstead.

Mrs. Moore's, Madam!--I have no objection to Mrs. Moore's--but will you
give me your promise, to admit me there to your presence?

As I do here--when I cannot help it.

Very well, Madam--Will you be so good as to let me know what you intend
by your promise to make yourself easy.

To endeavour, Sir, to make myself easy--were the words----

Till you saw what next Thursday would produce?

Ask me no questions that may ensnare me.  I am too sincere for the
company I am in.

Let me ask you, Madam, What meant you, when you said, 'that, were it
not a sin, you would die before you gave me that assurance?'

She was indignantly silent.

You thought, Madam, you had given me room to hope your pardon by it?

When I think I ought to answer you with patience I will speak.

Do you think yourself in my power, Madam?

If I were not--And there she stopt----

Dearest creature, speak out--I beseech you, dearest creature, speak out
----

She was silent; her charming face all in a glow.

Have you, Madam, any reliance upon my honour?

Still silent.

You hate me, Madam!  You despise me more than you do the most odious of
God's creatures!

You ought to despise me, if I did not.

You say, Madam, you are in a bad house.  You have no reliance upon my
honour--you believe you cannot avoid me----

She arose.  I beseech you, let me withdraw.

I snatched her hand, rising, and pressed it first to my lips, and then to
my heart, in wild disorder.  She might have felt the bounding mischief
ready to burst its bars--You shall go--to your own apartment, if you
please--But, by the great God of Heaven, I will accompany you thither!

She trembled--Pray, pray, Mr. Lovelace, don't terrify me so!

Be seated, Madam!  I beseech you, be seated!----

I will sit down----

Do then--All my soul is in my eyes, and my heart's blood throbbing at my
fingers' ends.

I will--I will--You hurt me--Pray, Mr. Lovelace, don't--don't frighten me
so--And down she sat, trembling; my hand still grasping her's.

I hung over her throbbing bosom, and putting my other arm round her waist
--And you say, you hate me, Madam--and you say, you despise me--and you
say, you promise me nothing----

Yes, yes, I did promise you--let me not be held down thus--you see I sat
down when you bid me--Why [struggling] need you hold me down thus?--I did
promise to endeavour to be easy till Thursday was over!  But you won't
let me!--How can I be easy?--Pray, let me not be thus terrified.

And what, Madam, meant you by your promise?  Did you mean any thing in my
favour?--You designed that I should, at that time, think you did.  Did
you mean any thing in my favour, Madam?--Did you intend that I should
think you did?

Let go my hand, Sir--Take away your arm from about me, [struggling, yet
trembling,]--Why do you gaze upon me so?

Answer me, Madam--Did you mean any thing in my favour by your promise?

Let me be not thus constrained to answer.

Then pausing, and gaining more spirit, Let me go, said she: I am but a
woman--but a weak woman.

But my life is in my own power, though my person is not--I will not be
thus constrained.

You shall not, Madam, quitting her hand, bowing; but my heart is at my
mouth, and hoping farther provocation.

She arose, and was hurrying away.

I pursue you not, Madam--I will try your generosity.  Stop--return--this
moment stop, return, if, Madam, you would not make me desperate.

She stopt at the door; burst into tears--O Lovelace!--How, how, have I
deserved----

Be pleased, dearest angel, to return.

She came back--but with declared reluctance; and imputing her compliance
to terror.

Terror, Jack, as I have heretofore found out, though I have so little
benefited by the discovery, must be my resort, if she make it necessary--
nothing else will do with the inflexible charmer.

She seated herself over-against me; extremely discomposed--but
indignation had a visible predominance in her features.

I was going towards her, with a countenance intendedly changed to love
and softness: Sweetest, dearest angel, were my words, in the tenderest
accent:--But, rising up, she insisted upon my being seated at a distance
from her.

I obeyed, and begged her hand over the table, to my extended hand;
to see, if in any thing she would oblige me.  But nothing gentle, soft,
or affectionate, would do.  She refused me her hand!--Was she wise, Jack,
to confirm to me, that nothing but terror would do?

Let me only know, Madam, if your promise to endeavour to wait with
patience the event of next Thursday meant me favour?

Do you expect any voluntary favour from one to whom you give not a free
choice?

Do you intend, Madam, to honour me with your hand, in your uncle's
presence, or do you not?

My heart and my hand shall never be separated.  Why, think you, did I
stand in opposition to the will of my best, my natural friends.

I know what you mean, Madam--Am I then as hateful to you as the vile
Solmes?

Ask me not such a question, Mr. Lovelace.

I must be answered.  Am I as hateful to you as the vile Solmes?

Why do you call Mr. Solmes vile?

Don't you think him so, Madam?

Why should I?  Did Mr. Solmes ever do vilely by me?

Dearest creature! don't distract me by hateful comparisons! and perhaps
by a more hateful preference.

Don't you, Sir, put questions to me that you know I will answer truly,
though my answer were ever so much to enrage you.

My heart, Madam, my soul is all your's at present.  But you must give me
hope, that your promise, in your own construction, binds you, no new
cause to the contrary, to be mine on Thursday.  How else can I leave you?

Let me go to Hampstead; and trust to my favour.

May I trust to it?--Say only may I trust to it?

How will you trust to it, if you extort an answer to this question?

Say only, dearest creature, say only, may I trust to your favour, if you
go to Hampstead?

How dare you, Sir, if I must speak out, expect a promise of favour from
me?--What a mean creature must you think me, after the ungrateful
baseness to me, were I to give you such a promise?

Then standing up, Thou hast made me, O vilest of men! [her hands clasped,
and a face crimsoned with indignation,] an inmate of the vilest of houses
--nevertheless, while I am in it, I shall have a heart incapable of any
thing but abhorrence of that and of thee!

And round her looked the angel, and upon me, with fear in her sweet
aspect of the consequence of her free declaration--But what a devil must
I have been, I who love bravery in a man, had I not been more struck with
admiration of her fortitude at the instant, than stimulated by revenge?

Noblest of creatures!--And do you think I can leave you, and my interest
in such an excellence, precarious?  No promise!--no hope!--If you make me
not desperate, may lightning blast me, if I do you not all the justice
'tis in my power to do you!

If you have any intention to oblige me, leave me at my own liberty, and
let me not be detained in this abominable house.  To be constrained as I
have been constrained! to be stopt by your vile agents! to be brought up
by force, and be bruised in my own defence against such illegal violence!
--I dare to die, Lovelace--and she who fears not death, is not to be
intimidated into a meanness unworthy of her heart and principles!

Wonderful creature!  But why, Madam, did you lead me to hope for
something favourable for next Thursday?--Once more, make me not desperate
--With all your magnanimity, glorious creature! [I was more than half
frantic, Belford,] you may, you may--but do not, do not make me brutally
threaten you--do not, do not make me desperate!

My aspect, I believe, threatened still more than my words.  I was rising
--She rose--Mr. Lovelace, be pacified--you are even more dreadful than
the Lovelace I have long dreaded--let me retire--I ask your leave to
retire--you really frighten me--yet I give you no hope--from my heart I
ab----

Say not, Madam, you abhor me.  You must, for your own sake, conceal your
hatred--at least not avow it.  I seized her hand.

Let me retire--let me, retire, said she, in a manner out of breath.

I will only say, Madam, that I refer myself to your generosity.  My heart
is not to be trusted at this instant.  As a mark of my submission to your
will, you shall, if you please, withdraw--but I will not go to M. Hall--
live or die my Lord M.  I will not go to M. Hall--but will attend the
effect of your promise.  Remember, Madam, you have promised to endeavour
to make yourself easy till you see the event of next Thursday--next
Thursday, remember, your uncle comes up, to see us married--that's the
event.--You think ill of your Lovelace--do not, Madam, suffer your own
morals to be degraded by the infection, as you called it, of his example.

Away flew the charmer with this half permission--and no doubt thought that
she had an escape--nor without reason.

I knew not for half an hour what to do with myself.  Vexed at the heart,
nevertheless, (now she was from me, and when I reflected upon her hatred
of me, and her defiances,) that I suffered myself to be so overawed,
checked, restrained----

And now I have written thus far, (have of course recollected the whole of
our conversation,) I am more and more incensed against myself.

But I will go down to these women--and perhaps suffer myself to be
laughed at by them.

Devil fetch them, they pretend to know their own sex.  Sally was a woman
well educated--Polly also--both have read--both have sense--of parentage
not mean--once modest both--still, they say, had been modest, but for me
--not entirely indelicate now; though too little nice for my personal
intimacy, loth as they both are to have me think so--the old one, too, a
woman of family, though thus (from bad inclination as well as at first
from low circumstances) miserably sunk:--and hence they all pretend to
remember what once they were; and vouch for the inclinations and
hypocrisy of the whole sex, and wish for nothing so ardently, as that I
will leave the perverse lady to their management while I am gone to
Berkshire; undertaking absolutely for her humility and passiveness on my
return; and continually boasting of the many perverse creatures whom they
have obliged to draw in their traces.


***


I am just come from the sorceresses.

I was forced to take the mother down; for she began with her Hoh, Sir!
with me; and to catechize and upbraid me, with as much insolence as if I
owed her money.

I made her fly the pit at last.  Strange wishes wished we against each
other at her quitting it----What were they?--I'll tell thee----She wished
me married, and to be jealous of my wife; and my heir-apparent the child
of another man.  I was even with her with a vengeance.  And yet thou wilt
think that could not well be.--As how?--As how, Jack!--Why, I wished for
her conscience come to life!  And I know, by the gripes mine gives me
every half-hour, that she would then have a cursed time of it.

Sally and Polly gave themselves high airs too.  Their first favours were
thrown at me, [women to boast of those favours which they were as willing
to impart, first forms all the difficulty with them! as I to receive!] I
was upbraided with ingratitude, dastardice and all my difficulties with
my angel charged upon myself, for want of following my blows; and for
leaving the proud lady mistress of her own will, and nothing to reproach
herself with.  And all agreed, that the arts used against her on a
certain occasion, had too high an operation for them or me to judge what
her will would have been in the arduous trial.  And then they blamed one
another; as I cursed them all.

They concluded, that I should certainly marry, and be a lost man.  And
Sally, on this occasion, with an affected and malicious laugh, snapt her
fingers at me, and pointing two of each hand forkedly at me, bid me
remember the lines I once showed her of my favourite Jack Dryden, as she
always familiarly calls that celebrated poet:

      We women to new joys unseen may move:
      There are no prints left in the paths of love.
      All goods besides by public marks are known:
      But those men most desire to keep, have none.

This infernal implement had the confidence further to hint, that when a
wife, some other man would not find half the difficulty with my angel
that I had found.  Confidence indeed!  But yet, I must say, if a man
gives himself up to the company of these devils, they never let him rest
till he either suspects or hate his wife.

But a word or two of other matters, if possible.

Methinks I long to know how causes go at M. Hall.  I have another private
intimation, that the old peer is in the greatest danger.

I must go down.  Yet what to do with this lady the mean while!  These
cursed women are full of cruelty and enterprise.  She will never be easy
with them in my absence.  They will have provocation and pretence
therefore.  But woe be to them, if----

Yet what will vengeance do, after an insult committed?  The two nymphs
will have jealous rage to goad them on.  And what will withhold a jealous
and already-ruined woman?

To let her go elsewhere; that cannot be done.  I am still too resolved to
be honest, if she'll give me hope: if yet she'll let me be honest.  But
I'll see how she'll be after the contention she will certainly have
between her resentment and the terror she has reason for from our last
conversation.  So let this subject rest till the morning.  And to the old
peer once more.

I shall have a good deal of trouble, I reckon, though no sordid man, to
be decent on the expected occasion.  Then how to act (I who am no
hypocrite) in the days of condolement!  What farces have I to go through;
and to be the principal actor in them!  I'll try to think of my own
latter end; a gray beard, and a graceless heir; in order to make me
serious.

Thou, Belford, knowest a good deal of this sort of grimace; and canst
help a gay heart to a little of the dismal.  But then every feature of
thy face is cut out for it.  My heart may be touched, perhaps, sooner
than thine; for, believe me or not, I have a very tender one.  But then,
no man looking into my face, be the occasion for grief ever so great,
will believe that heart to be deeply distressed.

All is placid, easy, serene, in my countenance.  Sorrow cannot sit half
an hour together upon it.  Nay, I believe, that Lord M.'s recovery,
should it happen, would not affect me above a quarter of an hour.  Only
the new scenery, (and the pleasure of aping an Heraclitus to the family,
while I am a Democritus among my private friends,) or I want nothing that
the old peer can leave me.  Wherefore then should grief sadden and
distort such blythe, such jocund, features as mine?

But as for thine, were there murder committed in the street, and thou
wert but passing by, the murderer even in sight, the pursuers would
quit him, and lay hold of thee: and thy very looks would hang, as well
as apprehend thee.

But one word to business, Jack.  Whom dealest thou with for thy blacks?--
Wert thou well used?--I shall want a plaguy parcel of them.  For I intend
to make every soul of the family mourn--outside, if not in.



LETTER XXXIII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
JUNE 23, FRIDAY MORNING.


I went out early this morning, on a design that I know not yet whether
I shall or shall not pursue; and on my return found Simon Parsons, my
Lord's Berkshire bailiff, (just before arrived,) waiting for me with a
message in form, sent by all the family, to press me to go down, and
that at my Lord's particular desire, who wants to see me before he
dies.

Simon has brought my Lord's chariot-and-six [perhaps my own by this
time,] to carry me down.  I have ordered it to be in readiness by four
to-morrow morning.  The cattle shall smoke for the delay; and by the
rest they'll have in the interim, will be better able to bear it.

I am still resolved upon matrimony, if my fair perverse will accept of
me.  But, if she will not----why then I must give an uninterrupted
hearing, not to my conscience, but to these women below.

Dorcas had acquainted her lady with Simon's arrival and errand.  My
beloved had desired to see him.  But my coming in prevented his
attendance on her, just as Dorcas was instructing him what questions he
should not answer to, that might be asked of him.

I am to be admitted to her presence immediately, at my repeated
request.  Surely the acquisition in view will help me to make up all
with her.  She is just gone up to the dining-room.


***


Nothing will do, Jack!--I can procure no favour from her, though she
has obtained from me the point which she had set her heart upon.

I will give thee a brief account of what passed between us.

I first proposed instant marriage; and this in the most fervent manner:
but was denied as fervently.

Would she be pleased to assure me that she would stay here only till
Tuesday morning?  I would but just go down to see how my Lord was--to
know whether he had any thing particular to say, or enjoin me, while yet
he was sensible, as he was very earnest to see me: perhaps I might be up
on Sunday.--Concede in something!--I beseech you, Madam, show me some
little consideration.

Why, Mr. Lovelace, must I be determined by your motions?--Think you that
I will voluntarily give a sanction to the imprisonment of my person?  Of
what importance to me ought to be your stay or your return.

Give a sanction to the imprisonment of your person!  Do you think, Madam,
that I fear the law?

I might have spared this foolish question of defiance: but my pride would
not let me.  I thought she threatened me, Jack.

I don't think you fear the law, Sir.--You are too brave to have any
regard either to moral or divine sanctions.

'Tis well, Madam!  But ask me any thing I can do to oblige you; and I
will oblige you, though in nothing will you oblige me.

Then I ask you, then I request of you, to let me go to Hampstead.

I paused--And at last--By my soul you shall--this very moment I will
wait upon you, and see you fixed there, if you'll promise me your hand
on Thursday, in presence of your uncle.

I want not you to see me fixed.  I will promise nothing.

Take care, Madam, that you don't let me see that I can have no reliance
upon your future favour.

I have been used to be threatened by you, Sir--but I will accept of your
company to Hampstead--I will be ready to go in a quarter of an hour--my
clothes may be sent after me.

You know the condition, Madam--Next Thursday.

You dare not trust----

My infinite demerits tell me, that I ought not--nevertheless I will
confide in your generosity.--To-morrow morning (no new cause arising to
give reason to the contrary) as early as you please you may go to
Hampstead.

This seemed to oblige her.  But yet she looked with a face of doubt.

I will go down to the women, Belford.  And having no better judges at
hand, will hear what they say upon my critical situation with this
proud beauty, who has so insolently rejected a Lovelace kneeling at her
feet, though making an earnest tender of himself for a husband, in spite
of all his prejudices to the state of shackles.



LETTER XXXIV

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.


Just come from the women.

'Have I gone so far, and am I afraid to go farther?--Have I not already,
as it is evident by her behaviour, sinned beyond forgiveness?--A woman's
tears used to be to me but as water sprinkled on a glowing fire, which
gives it a fiercer and brighter blaze: What defence has this lady but her
tears and her eloquence?  She was before taken at no weak advantage.  She
was insensible in her moments of trial.  Had she been sensible, she must
have been sensible.  So they say.  The methods taken with her have
augmented her glory and her pride.  She has now a tale to tell, that she
may tell with honour to herself.  No accomplice-inclination.  She can
look me into confusion, without being conscious of so much as a thought
which she need to be ashamed of.'

This, Jack, is the substance of the women's reasonings with me.

To which let me add, that the dear creature now sees the necessity I am
in to leave her.  Detecting me is in her head.  My contrivances are of
such a nature, that I must appear to be the most odious of men if I am
detected on this side matrimony.  And yet I have promised, as thou seest,
that she shall set out to Hampstead as soon as she pleases in the
morning, and that without condition on her side.

Dost thou ask, What I meant by this promise?

No new cause arising, was the proviso on my side, thou'lt remember.
But there will be a new cause.

Suppose Dorcas should drop the promissory note given her by her lady?
Servants, especially those who cannot read or write, are the most
careless people in the world of written papers.  Suppose I take it up?--
at a time, too, that I was determined that the dear creature should be
her own mistress?--Will not this detection be a new cause?--A cause that
will carry with it against her the appearance of ingratitude!

That she designed it a secret to me, argues a fear of detection, and
indirectly a sense of guilt.  I wanted a pretence.  Can I have a better?
--If I am in a violent passion upon the detection, is not passion an
universally-allowed extenuator of violence?  Is not every man and woman
obliged to excuse that fault in another, which at times they find
attended with such ungovernable effects in themselves?

The mother and sisterhood, suppose, brought to sit in judgment upon the
vile corrupted--the least benefit that must accrue from the accidental
discovery, if not a pretence for perpetration, [which, however, may be
the case,] an excuse for renewing my orders for her detention till my
return from M. Hall, [the fault her own,] and for keeping a stricter
watch over her than before; with direction to send me any letters that
may be written by her or to her.--And when I return, the devil's in it
if I find not a way to make her choose lodgings for herself, (since
these are so hateful to her,) that shall answer all my purposes; and
yet I no more appear to direct her choice, than I did before in these.

Thou wilt curse me when thou comest to this place.  I know thou wilt.
But thinkest thou that, after such a series of contrivance, I will lose
this inimitable woman for want of a little more?  A rake's a rake, Jack!
--And what rake is withheld by principle from the perpetration of any
evil his heart is set upon, and in which he thinks he can succeed?--
Besides, am I not in earnest as to marriage?--Will not the generality of
the world acquit me, if I do marry?  And what is that injury which a
church-rite will not at any time repair?  Is not the catastrophe of every
story that ends in wedlock accounted happy, be the difficulties in the
progress of it ever so great.

But here, how am I engrossed by this lady, while poor Lord M. as Simon
tells me, lies groaning in the most dreadful agonies!--What must he
suffer!--Heaven relieve him!--I have a too compassionate heart.  And so
would the dear creature have found, could I have thought that the worst
of her sufferings is equal to the lightest of his.  I mean as to fact;
for as to that part of her's, which arises from extreme sensibility, I
know nothing of that; and cannot therefore be answerable for it.



LETTER XXXV

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.


Just come from my charmer.  She will not suffer me to say half the
obliging, the tender things, which my honest heart is ready to overflow
with.  A confounded situation that, when a man finds himself in humour
to be eloquent, and pathetic at the same time, yet cannot engage the
mistress of his fate to lend an ear to his fine speeches.

I can account now how it comes about that lovers, when their mistresses
are cruel, run into solitude, and disburthen their minds to stocks and
stones: For am I not forced to make my complaints to thee?

She claimed the performance of my promise, the moment she saw me, of
permitting her [haughtily she spoke the word] to go to Hampstead as soon
as I was gone to Berks.

Most cheerfully I renewed it.

She desired me to give orders in her hearing.

I sent for Dorcas and Will.  They came.--Do you both take notice, (but,
perhaps, Sir, I may take you with me,) that your lady is to be obeyed in
all her commands.  She purposes to return to Hampstead as soon as I am
gone--My dear, will you not have a servant to attend you?

I shall want no servant there.

Will you take Dorcas?

If I should want Dorcas, I can send for her.

Dorcas could not but say, She should be very proud--

Well, well, that may be at my return, if your lady permit.--Shall I, my
dear, call up Mrs. Sinclair, and give her orders, to the same effect, in
your hearing?

I desire not to see Mrs. Sinclair; nor any that belong to her.

As you please, Madam.

And then (the servants being withdrawn) I urged her again for the
assurance, that she would meet me at the altar on Thursday next.  But to
no purpose.--May she not thank herself for all that may follow?

One favour, however, I would not be denied, to be admitted to pass the
evening with her.

All sweetness and obsequiousness will I be on this occasion.  My whole
soul shall be poured out to move her to forgive me.  If she will not, and
if the promissory note should fall in my way, my revenge will doubtless
take total possession of me.

All the house in my interest, and every one in it not only engaging to
intimidate and assist, as occasion shall offer, but staking all their
experience upon my success, if it be not my own fault, what must be the
consequence?

This, Jack, however, shall be her last trial; and if she behave as nobly
in and after this second attempt (all her senses about her) as she has
done after the first, she will come out an angel upon full proof, in
spite of man, woman, and devil: then shall there be an end of all her
sufferings.  I will then renounce that vanquished devil, and reform.  And
if any vile machination start up, presuming to mislead me, I will sooner
stab it in my heart, as it rises, than give way to it.

A few hours will now decide all.  But whatever be the event, I shall be
too busy to write again, till I get to M. Hall.

Mean time, I am in strange agitations.  I must suppress them, if
possible, before I venture into her presence.--My heart bounces my bosom
from the table.  I will lay down my pen, and wholly resign to its
impulses.



LETTER XXXVI

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
FRIDAY NIGHT, OR RATHER SAT. MORN. ONE O'CLOCK.


I thought I should not have had either time or inclination to write
another line before I got to M. Hall.  But, having the first, must find
the last; since I can neither sleep, nor do any thing but write, if I can
do that.  I am most confoundedly out of humour.  The reason let it
follow; if it will follow--nor preparation for it from me.

I tried by gentleness and love to soften--What?--Marble.  A heart
incapable either of love or gentleness.  Her past injuries for ever in
her head.  Ready to receive a favour; the permission to go to
Hampstead: but neither to deserve it, nor return any.  So my scheme of
the gentle kind was soon given over.

I then wanted to provoke her: like a coward boy, who waits for the first
blow before he can persuade himself to fight, I half challenged her to
challenge or defy me.  She seemed aware of her danger; and would not
directly brave my resentment: but kept such a middle course, that I
neither could find a pretence to offend, nor reason to hope: yet she
believed my tale, that her uncle would come to Kentish-town, and seemed
not to apprehend that Tomlinson was an impostor.

She was very uneasy, upon the whole, in my company: wanted often to
break from me: yet so held me to my purpose of permitting her to go to
Hampstead, that I knew not how to get off it; although it was impossible,
in my precarious situation with her, to think of performing
it.

In this situation; the women ready to assist; and, if I proceeded not,
as ready to ridicule me; what had I left me, but to pursue the concerted
scheme, and to seek a pretence to quarrel with her, in order to revoke my
promised permission, and to convince her that I would not be upbraided as
the most brutal of ravishers for nothing?

I had agreed with the women, that if I could not find a pretence in her
presence to begin my operations, the note should lie in my way, and I was
to pick it up, soon after her retiring from me.  But I began to doubt at
near ten o'clock, (so earnest was she to leave me, suspecting my
over-warm behaviour to her, and eager grasping of her hand two or three
times, with eye-strings, as I felt, on the strain, while her eyes showed
uneasiness and apprehension,) that if she actually retired for the night,
it might be a chance whether it would be easy to come at her again. Loth,
therefore, to run such a risk, I stept out a little after ten, with intent
to alter the preconcerted disposition a little; saying I would attend her
again instantly.  But as I returned I met her at the door, intending to
withdraw for the night.  I could not persuade her to go back: nor had I
presence of mind (so full of complaisance as I was to her just before) to
stay her by force: so she slid through my hands into her own apartment.  I
had nothing to do, therefore, but to let my former concert take place.

I should have promised (but care not for order of time, connection, or
any thing else) that, between eight and nine in the evening, another
servant of Lord M. on horseback came, to desire me to carry down with me
Dr. S., the old peer having been once (in extremis, as they judge he is
now) relieved and reprieved by him.  I sent and engaged the doctor to
accompany me down: and am to call upon him by four this morning: or the
devil should have both my Lord and the Doctor, if I'd stir till I got all
made up.

Poke thy damn'd nose forward into the event, if thou wilt--Curse me if
thou shalt have it till its proper time and place.  And too soon then.

She had hardly got into her chamber, but I found a little paper, as I was
going into mine, which I took up; and opening it, (for it was carefully
pinned in another paper,) what should it be but a promissory note, given
as a bribe, with a further promise of a diamond ring, to induce Dorcas to
favour her mistress's escape?

How my temper changed in a moment!--Ring, ring, ring, ring, I my bell,
with a violence enough to break the string, and as if the house were on
fire.

Every devil frighted into active life: the whole house in an uproar.  Up
runs Will.--Sir--Sir--Sir!--Eyes goggling, mouth distended--Bid the
damn'd toad Dorcas come hither, (as I stood at the stair-head,) in a
horrible rage, and out of breath, cried I.

In sight came the trembling devil--but standing aloof, from the report
made her by Will. of the passion I was in, as well as from what she had
heard.

Flash came out my sword immediately; for I had it ready on--Cursed,
confounded, villanous bribery and corruption----

Up runs she to her lady's door, screaming out for safety and protection.

Good your honour, interposed Will., for God's sake!--O Lord, O Lord!--
receiving a good cuff.--

Take that, varlet, for saving the ungrateful wretch from my vengeance.

Wretch!  I intended to say; but if it were some other word of like
ending, passion must be my excuse.

Up ran two or three of the sisterhood, What's the matter!  What's the
matter!

The matter! (for still my beloved opened not the door; on the contrary,
drew another bolt,) This abominable Dorcas!--(call her aunt up!--let her
see what a traitress she has placed about me!--and let her bring the toad
to answer for herself)--has taken a bribe, a provision for life, to
betray her trust; by that means to perpetuate a quarrel between a man and
his wife, and frustrate for ever all hopes of reconciliation between us!

Let me perish, Belford, if I have patience to proceed with the farce!


***


If I must resume, I must----

Up came the aunt, puffing and blowing--As she hoped for mercy, she was
not privy to it!  She never knew such a plotting, perverse lady in her
life!--Well might servants be at the pass they were, when such ladies as
Mrs. Lovelace made no conscience of corrupting them.  For her part she
desired no mercy for the wretch; no niece of her's, if she were not
faithful to her trust!--But what was the proof?----

She was shown the paper----

But too evident!--Cursed, cursed toad, devil, jade, passed from each
mouth:--and the vileness of the corrupted, and the unworthiness of the
corruptress, were inveighed against.

Up we all went, passing the lady's door into the dining-room, to proceed
to trial.----

Stamp, stamp, stamp up, each on her heels; rave, rave, rave, every tongue
----

Bring up the creature before us all this instant!----

And would she have got out of the house, say you?--

These the noises and the speeches as we clattered by the door of the fair
bribress.

Up was brought Dorcas (whimpering) between two, both bawling out--You
must go--You shall go--'Tis fit you should answer for yourself--You are a
discredit to all worthy servants--as they pulled and pushed her up
stairs.--She whining, I cannot see his honour--I cannot look so good and
so generous a gentleman in the face--O how shall I bear my aunt's
ravings?----

Come up, and be d--n'd--Bring her forward, her imperial judge--What a
plague, it is the detection, not the crime, that confounds you.  You
could be quiet enough for days together, as I see by the date, under the
villany.  Tell me, ungrateful devil, tell me who made the first advances?

Ay, disgrace to my family and blood, cried the old one--tell his honour--
tell the truth!--Who made the first advances?----

Ay, cursed creature, cried Sally, who made the first advances?

I have betrayed one trust already!--O let me not betray another!--My lady
is a good lady!--O let not her suffer!--

Tell all you know.  Tell the whole truth, Dorcas, cried Polly Horton.--
His honour loves his lady too well to make her suffer much: little as she
requites his love!----

Every body sees that, cried Sally--too well, indeed, for his honour, I
was going to say.

Till now, I thought she deserved my love--But to bribe a servant thus,
who she supposed had orders to watch her steps, for fear of another
elopement; and to impute that precaution to me as a crime!--Yet I must
love her--Ladies, forgive my weakness!----

Curse upon my grimaces!--if I have patience to repeat them!--But thou
shalt have it all--thou canst not despise me more than I despise myself!


***


But suppose, Sir, said Sally, you have my lady and the wench face to
face!  You see she cares not to confess.

O my carelessness! cried Dorcas--Don't let my poor lady suffer!--Indeed,
if you all knew what I know, you would say her ladyship has been cruelly
treated--

See, see, see, see!--repeatedly, every one at once--Only sorry for the
detection, as your honour said--not for the fault.

Cursed creature, and devilish creature, from every mouth.

Your lady won't, she dare not come out to save you, cried Sally; though
it is more his honour's mercy, than your desert, if he does not cut your
vile throat this instant.

Say, repeated Polly, was it your lady that made the first advances, or
was it you, you creature----

If the lady had so much honour, bawled the mother, excuse me, so--Excuse
me, Sir, [confound the old wretch! she had like to have said son!]--If
the lady has so much honour, as we have supposed, she will appear to
vindicate a poor servant, misled, as she has been, by such large
promises!--But I hope, Sir, you will do them both justice: I hope you
will!--Good lack!--Good lack! clapping her hands together, to grant her
every thing she could ask--to indulge her in her unworthy hatred to my
poor innocent house!--to let her go to Hampstead, though your honour told
us, you could get no condescension from her; no, not the least--O Sir, O
Sir--I hope--I hope--if your lady will not come out--I hope you will find
a way to hear this cause in her presence.  I value not my doors on such
an occasion as this.  Justice I ever loved.  I desire you will come to
the bottom of it in clearance to me.  I'll be sworn I had no privity in
this black corruption.

Just then we heard the lady's door, unbar, unlock, unbolt----

Now, Sir!

Now, Mr. Lovelace!

Now, Sir! from every encouraging mouth!----

But, O Jack! Jack! Jack!  I can write no more!


***


If you must have it all, you must!

Now, Belford, see us all sitting in judgment, resolved to punish the fair
bribress--I, and the mother, the hitherto dreaded mother, the nieces
Sally, Polly, the traitress Dorcas, and Mabell, a guard, as it were, over
Dorcas, that she might not run away, and hide herself:--all
pre-determined, and of necessity pre-determined, from the journey I was
going to take, and my precarious situation with her--and hear her unbolt,
unlock, unbar, the door; then, as it proved afterwards, put the key into
the lock on the outside, lock the door, and put it in her pocket--Will. I
knew, below, who would give me notice, if, while we were all above, she
should mistake her way, and go down stairs, instead of coming into the
dining-room: the street-door also doubly secured, and every shutter to the
windows round the house fastened, that no noise or screaming should be
heard--[such was the brutal preparation]--and then hear her step towards
us, and instantly see her enter among us, confiding in her own innocence;
and with a majesty in her person and manner, that is natural to her; but
which then shone out in all its glory!--Every tongue silent, every eye
awed, every heart quaking, mine, in a particular manner sunk, throbless,
and twice below its usual region, to once at my throat:--a shameful
recreant:--She silent too, looking round her, first on me; then on the
mother, no longer fearing her; then on Sally, Polly, and the culprit
Dorcas!--such the glorious power of innocence exerted at that awful
moment!

She would have spoken, but could not, looking down my guilt into
confusion.  A mouse might have been heard passing over the floor: her own
light feet and rustling silks could not have prevented it; for she seemed
to tread air, and to be all soul.  She passed backwards and forwards, now
towards me, now towards the door several times, before speech could get
the better of indignation; and at last, after twice or thrice hemming to
recover her articulate voice--'O thou contemptible and abandoned
Lovelace, thinkest thou that I see not through this poor villanous plot
of thine, and of these thy wicked accomplices?

'Thou, woman, [looking at the mother] once my terror! always my dislike!
but now my detestation! shouldst once more (for thine perhaps was the
preparation) have provided for me intoxicating potions, to rob me of my
senses----

'And then, thus, wretch, [turning to me,] mightest thou more securely
have depended upon such a low contrivance as this!

'And ye, vile women, who perhaps have been the ruin, body and soul, of
hundreds of innocents, (you show me how, in full assembly,) know, that I
am not married--ruined as I am, by your help, I bless God, I am not
married to this miscreant--and I have friends that will demand my honour
at your hands!--and to whose authority I will apply; for none has this
man over me.  Look to it then, what farther insults you offer me, or
incite him to offer me.  I am a person, though thus vilely betrayed, of
rank and fortune.  I never will be his; and, to your utter ruin, will
find friends to pursue you: and now I have this full proof of your
detestable wickedness, and have heard your base incitements, will have
no mercy upon you!'

They could not laugh at the poor figure I made.--Lord! how every devil,
conscience-shaken, trembled!--

What a dejection must ever fall to the lot of guilt, were it given to
innocence always thus to exert itself!

'And as for thee, thou vile Dorcas!  Thou double deceiver!--whining out
thy pretended love for me!--Begone, wretch!--Nobody will hurt thee!--
Begone, I say!--thou has too well acted thy part to be blamed by any here
but myself--thou art safe: thy guilt is thy security in such a house as
this!--thy shameful, thy poor part, thou hast as well acted as the low
farce could give thee to act!--as well as they each of them (thy
superiors, though not thy betters), thou seest, can act theirs.--Steal
away into darkness!  No inquiry after this will be made, whose the first
advances, thine or mine.'

And, as I hope to live, the wench, confoundedly frightened, slunk away;
so did her sentinel Mabell; though I, endeavouring to rally, cried out
for Dorcas to stay--but I believe the devil could not have stopt her,
when an angel bid her begone.

Madam, said I, let me tell you; and was advancing towards her with a
fierce aspect, most cursedly vexed, and ashamed too----

But she turned to me: 'Stop where thou art, O vilest and most abandoned
of men!--Stop where thou art!--nor, with that determined face, offer to
touch me, if thou wouldst not that I should be a corps at thy feet!'

To my astonishment, she held forth a penknife in her hand, the point to
her own bosom, grasping resolutely the whole handle, so that there was no
offering to take it from her.

'I offer not mischief to any body but myself.  You, Sir, and ye women,
are safe from every violence of mine.  The LAW shall be all my resource:
the LAW,' and she spoke the word with emphasis, the LAW! that to such
people carries natural terror with it, and now struck a panic into them.

No wonder, since those who will damn themselves to procure ease and
plenty in this world, will tremble at every thing that seems to threaten
their methods of obtaining that ease and plenty.----

'The LAW only shall be my refuge!'----

The infamous mother whispered me, that it were better to make terms with
this strange lady, and let her go.

Sally, notwithstanding all her impudent bravery at other times, said, If
Mr. Lovelace had told them what was not true, of her being his wife----

And Polly Horton, That she must needs say, the lady, if she were not my
wife, had been very much injured; that was all.

That is not now a matter to be disputed, cried I: you and I know, Madam
----

'We do, said she; and I thank God, I am not thine--once more I thank God
for it--I have no doubt of the farther baseness that thou hast intended
me, by this vile and low trick: but I have my SENSES, Lovelace: and from
my heart I despise thee, thou very poor Lovelace!--How canst thou stand
in my presence!--Thou, that'----

Madam, Madam, Madam--these are insults not to be borne--and was
approaching her.

She withdrew to the door, and set her back against it, holding the
pointed knife to her heaving bosom; while the women held me, beseeching
me not to provoke the violent lady--for their house sake, and be curs'd
to them, they besought me--and all three hung upon me--while the truly
heroic lady braved me at that distance:

'Approach me, Lovelace, with resentment, if thou wilt.  I dare die.  It
is in defence of my honour.  God will be merciful to my poor soul!  I
expect no more mercy from thee!  I have gained this distance, and two
steps nearer me, and thou shalt see what I dare do!'----

Leave me, women, to myself, and to my angel!--[They retired at a
distance.]--O my beloved creature, how you terrify me!  Holding out my
arms, and kneeling on one knee--not a step, not a step farther, except to
receive my death at that injured hand which is thus held up against a
life far dearer to me than my own!  I am a villain! the blackest of
villains!--Say you will sheath your knife in the injurer's, not the
injured's heart, and then will I indeed approach you, but not else.

The mother twanged her d--n'd nose; and Sally and Polly pulled out their
handkerchiefs, and turned from us.  They never in their lives, they told
me afterwards, beheld such a scene----

Innocence so triumphant: villany so debased, they must mean!

Unawares to myself, I had moved onward to my angel--'And dost thou, dost
thou, still disclaiming, still advancing--dost thou, dost thou, still
insidiously move towards me?'--[And her hand was extended] 'I dare--I
dare--not rashly neither--my heart from principle abhors the act, which
thou makest necessary!--God, in thy mercy! [lifting up her eyes and
hands] God, in thy mercy!'

I threw myself to the farther end of the room.  An ejaculation, a silent
ejaculation, employing her thoughts that moment; Polly says the whites of
her lovely eyes were only visible: and, in the instant that she extended
her hand, assuredly to strike the fatal blow, [how the very recital
terrifies me!] she cast her eye towards me, and saw me at the utmost
distance the room would allow, and heard my broken voice--my voice was
utterly broken; nor knew I what I said, or whether to the purpose or not
--and her charming cheeks, that were all in a glow before, turned pale,
as if terrified at her own purpose; and lifting up her eyes--'Thank God!
--thank God! said the angel--delivered for the present; for the present
delivered--from myself--keep, Sir, that distance;' [looking down towards
me, who was prostrate on the floor, my heart pierced, as with an hundred
daggers;] 'that distance has saved a life; to what reserved, the Almighty
only knows!'--

To be happy, Madam; and to make happy!--And, O let me hope for your
favour for to-morrow--I will put off my journey till then--and may God--

Swear not, Sir!--with an awful and piercing aspect--you have too often
sworn!--God's eye is upon us!--His more immediate eye; and looked wildly.
--But the women looked up to the ceiling, as if afraid of God's eye, and
trembled.  And well they might, and I too, who so very lately had each of
us the devil in our hearts.

If not to-morrow, Madam, say but next Thursday, your uncle's birth-day;
say but next Thursday!

'This I say, of this you may assure yourself, I never, never will be
your's.--And let me hope, that I may be entitled to the performance of
your promise, to be permitted to leave this innocent house, as one called
it, (but long have my ears been accustomed to such inversions of words),
as soon as the day breaks.'

Did my perdition depend upon it, that you cannot, Madam, but upon terms.
And I hope you will not terrify me--still dreading the accursed knife.

'Nothing less than an attempt upon my honour shall make me desperate.  I
have no view but to defend my honour: with such a view only I entered
into treaty with your infamous agent below.  The resolution you have
seen, I trust, God will give me again, upon the same occasion.  But for a
less, I wish not for it.--Only take notice, women, that I am no wife of
this man: basely as he has used me, I am not his wife.  He has no
authority over me.  If he go away by-and-by, and you act by his authority
to detain me, look to it.'

Then, taking one of the lights, she turned from us; and away she went,
unmolested.--Not a soul was able to molest her.

Mabell saw her, tremblingly, and in a hurry, take the key of her
chamber-door out of her pocket, and unlock it; and, as soon as she
entered, heard her double-lock, bar, and bolt it.

By her taking out her key, when she came out of her chamber to us, she no
doubt suspected my design: which was, to have carried her in my arms
thither, if she made such force necessary, after I had intimidated her; and
to have been her companion for that night.

She was to have had several bedchamber-women to assist to undress her
upon occasion: but from the moment she entered the dining-room with so
much intrepidity, it was absolutely impossible to think of prosecuting my
villanous designs against her.


***


This, this, Belford, was the hand I made of a contrivance from which I
expected so much!--And now I am ten times worse off than before.

Thou never sawest people in thy life look so like fools upon one another,
as the mother, her partners, and I, did, for a few minutes.  And at last,
the two devilish nymphs broke out into insulting ridicule upon me; while
the old wretch was concerned for her house, the reputation of her house.
I cursed them all together; and, retiring to my chamber, locked myself
in.

And now it is time to set out: all I have gained, detection, disgrace,
fresh guilt by repeated perjuries, and to be despised by her I doat upon;
and, what is still worse to a proud heart, by myself.

Success, success in projects, is every thing.  What an admirable
contriver did I think myself till now!  Even for this scheme among the
rest!  But how pitifully foolish does it now appear to me!--Scratch out,
erase, never to be read, every part of my preceding letters, where I have
boastingly mentioned it.  And never presume to rally me upon the cursed
subject: for I cannot bear it.

But for the lady, by my soul, I love her.  I admire her more than ever!
I must have her.  I will have her still--with honour or without, as I
have often vowed.  My cursed fright at her accidental bloody nose, so
lately, put her upon improving upon me thus.  Had she threatened ME, I
should have soon been master of one arm, and in both!  But for so sincere
a virtue to threaten herself, and not to offer to intimidate any other,
and with so much presence of mind, as to distinguish, in the very
passionate intention, the necessity of the act, defence of her honour,
and so fairly to disavow lesser occasions: showed such a deliberation,
such a choice, such a principle; and then keeping me so watchfully at a
distance that I could not seize her hand, so soon as she could have given
the fatal blow; how impossible not to be subdued by so true and so
discreet a magnanimity!

But she is not gone.  She shall not go.  I will press her with letters
for the Thursday.  She shall yet be mine, legally mine.  For, as to
cohabitation, there is no such thing to be thought of.

The Captain shall give her away, as proxy for her uncle.  My Lord will
die.  My fortune will help my will, and set me above every thing and
every body.

But here is the curse--she despises me, Jack!--What man, as I have
heretofore said, can bear to be despised--especially by his wife!--O
Lord!--O Lord!  What a hand, what a cursed hand, have I made of this
plot!--And here ends

The history of the lady and the penknife!--The devil take the penknife!
--It goes against me to say,

God bless the lady!

NEAR 5, SAT. MORN.



LETTER XXXVII

MR. LOVELACE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE
[SUPERSCRIBED TO MRS. LOVELACE.]
M. HALL, SAT. NIGHT, JUNE 24.


MY DEAREST LIFE,

If you do not impute to live, and to terror raised by love, the poor
figure I made before you last night, you will not do me justice.  I
thought I would try to the very last moment, if, by complying with you in
every thing, I could prevail upon you to promise to be mine on Thursday
next, since you refused me an earlier day.  Could I have been so happy,
you had not been hindered going to Hampstead, or wherever else you
pleased.  But when I could not prevail upon you to give me this
assurance, what room had I, (my demerit so great,) to suppose, that your
going thither would not be to lose you for ever?

I will own to you, Madam, that yesterday afternoon I picked up the paper
dropt by Dorcas; who has confessed that she would have assisted you in
getting away, if she had had opportunity so to do; and undoubtedly
dropped it by accident.  And could I have prevailed upon you as to
Thursday next, I would have made no use of it; secure as I should have
been in your word given, to be mine.  But when I found you inflexible,
I was resolved to try, if, by resenting Dorcas's treachery, I could not
make your pardon of me the condition of mine to her: and if not, to make
a handle of it to revoke my consent to your going away from Mrs.
Sinclair's; since the consequence of that must have been so fatal to me.

So far, indeed, was my proceeding low and artful: and when I was
challenged with it, as such, in so high and noble a manner, I could not
avoid taking shame to myself upon it.

But you must permit me, Madam, to hope, that you will not punish me too
heavily for so poor a contrivance, since no dishonour was meant you: and
since, in the moment of its execution, you had as great an instance of my
incapacity to defend a wrong, a low measure, and, at the same time, in
your power over me, as mortal man could give--in a word, since you must
have seen, that I was absolutely under the controul both of conscience
and of love.

I will not offer to defend myself, for wishing you to remain where you
are, till either you give me your word to meet me at the altar on
Thursday; or till I have the honour of attending you, preparative to the
solemnity which will make that day the happiest of my life.

I am but too sensible, that this kind of treatment may appear to you with
the face of an arbitrary and illegal imposition: but as the consequences,
not only to ourselves, but to both our families, may be fatal, if you
cannot be moved in my favour; let me beseech you to forgive this act of
compulsion, on the score of the necessity you your dear self have laid me
under to be guilty of it; and to permit the solemnity of next Thursday to
include an act of oblivion for all past offences.

The orders I have given to the people of the house are: 'That you shall
be obeyed in every particular that is consistent with my expectations of
finding you there on my return on Wednesday next: that Mrs. Sinclair and
her nieces, having incurred your just displeasure, shall not, without
your orders, come into your presence: that neither shall Dorcas, till she
has fully cleared her conduct to your satisfaction, be permitted to
attend you: but Mabell, in her place; of whom you seemed some time ago to
express some liking.  Will. I have left behind me to attend your
commands.  If he be either negligent or impertinent, your dismission
shall be a dismission of him from my service for ever.  But, as to
letters which may be sent you, or any which you may have to send, I must
humbly entreat, that none such pass from or to you, for the few days that
I shall be absent.'  But I do assure you, madam, that the seals of both
sorts shall be sacred: and the letters, if such be sent, shall be given
into your own hands the moment the ceremony is performed, or before, if
you require it.

Mean time I will inquire, and send you word, how Miss Howe does; and to
what, if I can be informed, her long silence is owing.

Dr. Perkins I found here, attending my Lord, when I arrived with Dr. S.
He acquaints me that your father, mother, uncles, and the still less
worthy persons of your family, are well; and intend to be all at your
uncle Harlowe's next week; I presume, with intent to keep his
anniversary.  This can make no alteration, but a happy one, as to
persons, on Thursday; because Mr. Tomlinson assured me, that if any thing
fell out to hinder your uncle's coming up in person, (which, however, he
did not then expect,) he would be satisfied if his friend the Captain
were proxy for him.  I shall send a man and horse to-morrow to the
Captain, to be at greater certainty.

I send this by a special messenger, who will wait your pleasure in
relation to the impatiently-wished-for Thursday: which I humbly hope will
be signified by a line.

My Lord, though hardly sensible, and unmindful of every thing but of your
felicity, desires his most affectionate compliments to you.  He has in
readiness to present to you a very valuable set of jewels, which he hopes
will be acceptable, whether he lives to see you adorn them or not.

Lady Sarah and Lady Betty have also their tokens of respect ready to
court your acceptance: but may Heaven incline you to give the opportunity
of receiving their personal compliments, and those of my cousins
Montague, before the next week be out!

His Lordship is exceeding ill.  Dr. S. has no hopes of him.  The only
consolation I can have for the death of a relation who loves me so well,
if he do die, must arise from the additional power it will put into my
hands of showing how much I am,

My dearest life,
Your ever-affectionate, faithful,
LOVELACE.



LETTER XXXVIII

MR. LOVELACE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE
[SUPERSCRIBED TO MRS. LOVELACE.]
M. HALL, SUNDAY NIGHT, JUNE 25.


MY DEAREST LOVE,

I cannot find words to express how much I am mortified at the return of
my messenger without a line from you.

Thursday is so near, that I will send messenger after messenger every
four hours, till I have a favourable answer; the one to meet the other,
till its eve arrives, to know if I may venture to appear in your presence
with the hope of having my wishes answered on that day.

Your love, Madam, I neither expect, nor ask for; nor will, till my future
behaviour gives you cause to think I deserve it.  All I at present
presume to wish is, to have it in my power to do you all the justice I
can now do you: and to your generosity will I leave it, to reward me, as
I shall merit, with your affection.

At present, revolving my poor behaviour of Friday night before you, I
think I should sooner choose to go to my last audit, unprepared for it as
I am, than to appear in your presence, unless you give me some hope, that
I shall be received as your elected husband, rather than, (however
deserved,) as a detested criminal.

Let me, therefore, propose an expedient, in order to spare my own
confusion; and to spare you the necessity for that soul-harrowing
recrimination, which I cannot stand, and which must be disagreeable to
yourself--to name the church, and I will have every thing in readiness;
so that our next interview will be, in a manner, at the very altar; and
then you will have the kind husband to forgive for the faults of the
ungrateful lover.  If your resentment be still too high to write more,
let it only be in your own dear hand, these words, St. Martin's church,
Thursday--or these, St. Giles's church, Thursday; nor will I insist upon
any inscription or subscription, or so much as the initials of your name.
This shall be all the favour I will expect, till the dear hand itself is
given to mine, in presence of that Being whom I invoke as a witness of
the inviolable faith and honour of

Your adoring
LOVELACE.



LETTER XXXIX

MR. LOVELACE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE
[SUPERSCRIBED TO MRS. LOVELACE.]
M. HALL, MONDAY, JUNE 26.


Once more, my dearest love, do I conjure you to send me the four
requested words.  There is no time to be lost.  And I would not have next
Thursday go over, without being entitled to call you mine, for the world;
and that as well for your sake as for my own.  Hitherto all that has
passed is between you and me only; but, after Thursday, if my wishes are
unanswered, the whole will be before the world.

My Lord is extremely ill, and endures not to have me out of his sight for
one half hour.  But this shall not have the least weight with me, if you
be pleased to hold out the olive-branch to me in the four requested
words.

I have the following intelligence from Captain Tomlinson.

'All your family are at your uncle Harlowe's.  Your uncle finds he cannot
go up; and names Captain Tomlinson for his proxy.  He proposes to keep
all your family with him till the Captain assures him that the ceremony
is over.

'Already he has begun, with hope of success, to try to reconcile your
mother to you.'

My Lord M. but just now has told me how happy he should think himself to
have an opportunity, before he dies, to salute you as his niece.  I have
put him in hopes that he shall see you; and have told him that I will go
to town on Wednesday, in order to prevail upon you to accompany me down
on Thursday or Friday.  I have ordered a set to be in readiness to carry
me up; and, were not my Lord so very ill, my cousin Montague tells me
that she would offer her attendance on you.  If you please, therefore, we
can set out for this place the moment the solemnity is performed.

Do not, dearest creature, dissipate all those promising appearances, and
by refusing to save your own and your family's reputation in the eye of
the world, use yourself worse than the ungratefullest wretch on earth has
used you.  For if we were married, all the disgrace you imagine you have
suffered while a single lady, will be my own, and only known to
ourselves.

Once more, then, consider well the situation we are both in; and
remember, my dearest life, that Thursday will be soon here; and that you
have no time to lose.

In a letter sent by the messenger whom I dispatch with this, I have
desired that my friend, Mr. Belford, who is your very great admirer, and
who knows all the secrets of my heart, will wait upon you, to know what I
am to depend upon as to the chosen day.

Surely, my dear, you never could, at any time, suffer half so much from
cruel suspense, as I do.

If I have not an answer to this, either from your own goodness, or
through Mr. Belford's intercession, it will be too late for me to set
out: and Captain Tomlinson will be disappointed, who goes to town on
purpose to attend your pleasure.

One motive for the gentle resistance I have presumed to lay you under is,
to prevent the mischiefs that might ensue (as probably to the more
innocent, as to the less) were you to write to any body while your
passions were so much raised and inflamed against me.  Having apprized
you of my direction to the women in town on this head, I wonder you
should have endeavoured to send a letter to Miss Howe, although in a
cover directed to that young lady's* servant; as you must think it would
be likely to fall into my hands.


* The lady had made an attempt to send away a letter.


The just sense of what I have deserved the contents should be, leaves me
no room to doubt what they are.  Nevertheless, I return it you enclosed,
with the seal, as you will see, unbroken.

Relieve, I beseech you, dearest Madam, by the four requested words, or by
Mr. Belford, the anxiety of

Your ever-affectionate and obliged
LOVELACE.

Remember, there will not, there cannot be time for further writing, and
for coming up by Thursday, your uncle's birth-day.



LETTER XL

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
MONDAY, JUNE 26.


Thou wilt see the situation I am in with Miss Harlowe by the enclosed
copies of three letters; to two of which I am so much scorned as not to
have one word given me in answer; and of the third (now sent by the
messenger who brings thee this) I am afraid as little notice will be
taken--and if so, her day of grace is absolutely over.

One would imagine (so long used to constraint too as she has been) that
she might have been satisfied with the triumph she had over us all on
Friday night! a triumph that to this hour has sunk my pride and my vanity
so much, that I almost hate the words, plot, contrivance, scheme; and
shall mistrust myself in future for every one that rises to my inventive
head.

But seest thou not that I am under a necessity to continue her at
Sinclair's and to prohibit all her correspondencies?

Now, Belford, as I really, in my present mood, think of nothing less
than marrying her, if she let not Thursday slip, I would have thee attend
her, in pursuance of the intimation I have given her in my letter of this
date; and vow for me, swear for me, bind thy soul to her for my honour,
and use what arguments thy friendly heart can suggest, in order to
procure me an answer from her; which, as thou wilt see, she may give in
four words only.  And then I purpose to leave Lord M. (dangerously ill as
he is,) and meet her at her appointed church, in order to solemnize.  If
she will but sign Cl. H. to thy writing the four words, that shall do:
for I would not come up to be made a fool of in the face of all my family
and friends.

If she should let the day go off, I shall be desperate.  I am entangled
in my own devices, and cannot bear that she should detect me.

O that I had been honest!--What a devil are all my plots come to!  What
do they end in, but one grand plot upon myself, and a title to eternal
infamy and disgrace!  But, depending on thy friendly offices, I will say
no more of this.--Let her send me but one line!--But one line!--To treat
me as unworthy of her notice;--yet be altogether in my power--I cannot--I
will not bear that.

My Lord, as I said, is extremely ill.  The doctors give him over.  He
gives himself over.  Those who would not have him die, are afraid he will
die.  But as to myself, I am doubtful: for these long and violent
struggles between the constitution and the disease (though the latter has
three physicians and an apothecary to help it forward, and all three, as
to their prescriptions, of different opinions too) indicate a plaguy
habit, and savour more of recovery than death: and the more so, as he has
no sharp or acute mental organs to whet out his bodily ones, and to raise
his fever above the sympathetic helpful one.

Thou wilt see in the enclosed what pains I am at to dispatch messengers;
who are constantly on the road to meet each other, and one of them to
link in the chain with the fourth, whose station is in London, and five
miles onwards, or till met.  But in truth I have some other matters for
them to perform at the same time, with my Lord's banker and his lawyer;
which will enable me, if his Lordship is so good as to die this bout, to
be an over match for some of my other relations.  I don't mean Charlotte
and Patty; for they are noble girls: but others, who have been scratching
and clawing under-ground like so many moles in my absence; and whose
workings I have discovered since I have been down, by the little heaps of
dirt they have thrown up.

A speedy account of thy commission, dear Jack!  The letter travels all
night.



LETTER XLI

MR. BELFORD, TO ROBERT LOVELACE, ESQ.
LONDON, JUNE 27.  TUESDAY.


You must excuse me, Lovelace, from engaging in the office you would have
me undertake, till I can be better assured you really intend honourably
at last by this much-injured lady.

I believe you know your friend Belford too well to think he would be easy
with you, or with any man alive, who should seek to make him promise for
him what he never intended to perform.  And let me tell thee, that I have
not much confidence in the honour of a man, why by imitation of hands (I
will only call it) has shown so little regard to the honour of his own
relations.

Only that thou hast such jesuitical qualifyings, or I should think thee
at last touched with remorse, and brought within view of being ashamed
of thy cursed inventions by the ill success of thy last: which I heartily
congratulate thee upon.

O the divine lady!--But I will not aggravate!

Nevertheless, when thou writest that, in thy present mood, thou thinkest
of marrying, and yet canst so easily change thy mood; when I know thy
heart is against the state: that the four words thou courtest from the
lady are as much to thy purpose, as if she wrote forty; since it will
show she can forgive the highest injury that can be offered to woman; and
when I recollect how easily thou canst find excuses to postpone; thou
must be more explicit a good deal, as to thy real intentions, and future
honour, than thou art: for I cannot trust to temporary remorse; which
brought on by disappointment too, and not by principle, and the like of
which thou hast so often got over.

If thou canst convince me time enough for the day, that thou meanest to
do honourably by her, in her own sense of the word; or, if not time
enough, wilt fix some other day, (which thou oughtest to leave to her
option, and not bind her down for the Thursday; and the rather, as thy
pretence for so doing is founded on an absolute fiction;) I will then
most cheerfully undertake thy cause; by person, if she will admit me to
her presence; if she will not, by pen.  But, in this case, thou must
allow me to be guarantee for thy family.  And, if so, so much as I value
thee, and respect thy skill in all the qualifications of a gentleman,
thou mayest depend upon it, that I will act up to the character of a
guarantee, with more honour than the princes of our day usually do----to
their shame be it spoken.

Mean time let me tell thee, that my heart bleeds for the wrong this
angelic lady has received: and if thou dost not marry her, if she will
have thee, and, when married, make her the best and tenderest of
husbands, I would rather be a dog, a monkey, a bear, a viper, or a toad,
than thee.

Command me with honour, and thou shalt find none readier to oblige thee
than

Thy sincere friend,
JOHN BELFORD.



LETTER XLII

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
M. HALL, JUNE 27.  TUESDAY NIGHT, NEAR 12.


Your's reached me this moment, by an extraordinary push in the
messengers.

What a man of honour thou of a sudden!----

And so, in the imaginary shape of a guarantee, thou threatenest me!

Had I not been in earnest as to the lady, I should not have offered to
employ thee in the affair.  But, let me say, that hadst thou undertaken
the task, and I hadst afterwards thought fit to change my mind, I should
have contented myself to tell thee, that that was my mind when thou
engagedst for me, and to have given thee the reasons for the change, and
then left thee to thy own discretion: for never knew I what fear of man
was--nor fear of woman neither, till I became acquainted with Miss
Clarissa Harlowe, nay, what is most surprising, till I came to have her
in my power.

And so thou wilt not wait upon the charmer of my heart, but upon terms
and conditions!--Let it alone and be curs'd; I care not.--But so much
credit did I give to the value thou expressedst for her, that I thought
the office would have been acceptable to thee, as serviceable to me;
for what was it, but to endeavour to persuade her to consent to the
reparation of her own honour?  For what have I done but disgraced myself,
and been a thief to my own joys?--And if there be a union of hearts, and
an intention to solemnize, what is there wanting but the foolish
ceremony?--and that I still offer.  But, if she will keep back her hand,
if she will make me hold out mine in vain, how can I help it?

I write her one more letter; and if, after she has received that, she
keeps sullen silence, she must thank herself for what is to follow.

But, after all,, my heart is not wholly her's.  I love her beyond
expression; and cannot help it.  I hope therefore she will receive this
last tender as I wish.  I hope she intends not, like a true woman, to
plague, and vex, and tease me, now she has found her power.  If she will
take me to mercy now these remorses are upon me, (though I scorn to
condition with thee for my sincerity,) all her trials, as I have
heretofore declared, shall be over, and she shall be as happy as I can
make her: for, ruminating upon all that has passed between us, from the
first hour of our acquaintance till the present, I must pronounce, That
she is virtue itself and once more I say, has no equal.

As to what you hint, of leaving to her choice another day, do you
consider, that it will be impossible that my contrivances and stratagems
should be much longer concealed?--This makes me press that day, though so
near; and the more, as I have made so much ado about her uncle's
anniversary.  If she send me the four words, I will spare no fatigue to
be in time, if not for the canonical hour at church, for some other hour
of the day in her own apartment, or any other: for money will do every
thing: and that I have never spared in this affair.

To show thee, that I am not at enmity with thee, I enclose the copies of
two letters--one to her: it is the fourth, and must be the last on the
subject----The other to Captain Tomlinson; calculated, as thou wilt see,
for him to show her.

And now, Jack, interfere; in this case or not, thou knowest the mind of

R. LOVELACE.



LETTER XLIII

MR. LOVELACE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE
[SUPERSCRIBED TO MRS. LOVELACE.]
M. HALL, WED. MORNING, ONE O'CLOCK, JUNE 28.


Not one line, my dearest life, not one word, in answer to three letters
I have written!  The time is now so short, that this must be the last
letter that can reach you on this side the important hour that might make
us legally one.

My friend, Mr. Belford, is apprehensive, that he cannot wait upon you in
time, by reason of some urgent affairs of his own.

I the less regret the disappointment, because I have procured a more
acceptable person, as I hope, to attend you; Captain Tomlinson I mean:
to whom I had applied for this purpose, before I had Mr. Belford's
answer.

I was the more solicitous to obtain his favour form him, because of the
office he is to take upon him, as I humbly presume to hope, to-morrow.
That office obliged him to be in town as this day: and I acquainted him
with my unhappy situation with you; and desired that he would show me,
on this occasion, that I had as much of his favour and friendship as your
uncle had; since the whole treaty must be broken off, if he could not
prevail upon you in my behalf.

He will dispatch the messenger directly; whom I propose to meet in person
at Slough; either to proceed onward to London with a joyful heart, or to
return back to M. Hall with a broken one.

I ought not (but cannot help it) to anticipate the pleasure Mr. Tomlinson
proposes to himself, in acquainting you with the likelihood there is of
your mother's seconding your uncle's views.  For, it seems, he has
privately communicated to her his laudable intentions: and her resolution
depends, as well as his, upon what to-morrow will produce.

Disappoint not then, I beseech you, for an hundred persons' sakes, as
well as for mine, that uncle and that mother, whose displeasure I have
heard you so often deplore.

You may think it impossible for me to reach London by the canonical hour.
If it should, the ceremony may be performed in your own apartments, at
any time in the day, or at night: so that Captain Tomlinson may have it
to aver to your uncle, that it was performed on his anniversary.

Tell but the Captain, that you forbid me not to attend you: and that
shall be sufficient for bringing to you, on the wings of love,

Your ever-grateful and affectionate
LOVELACE.



LETTER XLIV

TO MR. PATRICK M'DONALD,
AT HIS LODGINGS, AT MR. BROWN'S, PERUKE-MAKER, IN ST. MARTIN'S LANE,
   WESTMINSTER
M. HALL, WEDN. MORNING, TWO O'CLOCK.

DEAR M'DONALD,

The bearer of this has a letter to carry to the lady.*  I have been at
the trouble of writing a copy of it: which I enclose, that you may not
mistake your cue.


* See the preceding Letter.


You will judge of my reasons for ante-dating the enclosed sealed one,*
directed to you by the name of Tomlinson; which you are to show to the
lady, as in confidence.  You will open it of course.


* See the next Letter.


I doubt not your dexterity and management, dear M'Donald; nor your zeal;
especially as the hope of cohabitation must now be given up.  Impossible
to be carried is that scheme.  I might break her heart, but not incline
her will--am in earnest therefore to marry her, if she let not the day
slip.

Improve upon the hint of her mother.  That may touch her.  But John
Harlowe, remember, has privately engaged that lady--privately, I say;
else, (not to mention the reason for her uncle Harlowe's former
expedient,) you know, she might find means to get a letter away to the
one or to the other, to know the truth; or to Miss Howe, to engage her
to inquire into it: and, if she should, the word privately will account
for the uncle's and mother's denying it.

However, fail not, as from me, to charge our mother and her nymphs to
redouble their vigilance both as to her person and letters.  All's upon a
crisis now.  But she must not be treated ill neither.

Thursday over, I shall know what to resolve upon.

If necessary, you must assume authority.  The devil's in't, if such a
girl as this shall awe a man of your years and experience.  You are not
in love with her as I am.  Fly out, if she doubt your honour.  Spirits
naturally soft may be beat out of their play and borne down (though ever
so much raised) by higher anger.  All women are cowards at bottom; only
violent where they may.  I have often stormed a girl out of her mistrust,
and made her yield (before she knew where she was) to the point
indignantly mistrusted; and that to make up with me, though I was the
aggressor.

If this matter succeed as I'd have it, (or if not, and do not fail by
your fault,) I will take you off the necessity of pursuing your cursed
smuggling; which otherwise may one day end fatally for you.

We are none of us perfect, M'Donald.  This sweet lady makes me serious
sometimes in spite of my heart.  But as private vices are less blamable
than public; an as I think smuggling (as it is called) a national evil;
I have no doubt to pronounce you a much worse man than myself, and as
such shall take pleasure in reforming you.

I send you enclosed ten guineas, as a small earnest of further favours.
Hitherto you have been a very clever fellow.

As to clothes for Thursday, Monmouth-street will afford a ready supply.
Clothes quite new would make your condition suspected.  But you may
defer that care, till you see if she can be prevailed upon.  Your
riding-dress will do for the first visit.  Nor let your boots be over
clean.  I have always told you the consequence of attending to the
minutiae, where art (or imposture, as the ill-mannered would call it) is
designed--your linen rumpled and soily, when you wait upon her--easy terms
these--just come to town--remember (as formerly) to loll, to throw out
your legs, to stroke and grasp down your ruffles, as if of significance
enough to be careless.  What though the presence of a fine lady would
require a different behaviour, are you not of years to dispense with
politeness? You can have no design upon her, you know.  You are a father
yourself of daughters as old as she.  Evermore is parade and
obsequiousness suspectable: it must show either a foolish head, or a
knavish heart. Assume airs of consequence therefore; and you will be
treated as a man of consequence.  I have often more than half ruined
myself by my complaisance; and, being afraid of controul, have brought
controul upon myself.

I think I have no more to say at present.  I intend to be at Slough, or
on the way to it, as by mine to the lady.  Adieu, honest M'Donald.

R.L.



LETTER XLV

TO CAPTAIN TOMLINSON
[ENCLOSED IN THE PRECEDING; TO BE SHOWN TO THE LADY AS IN CONFIDENCE.]
M. HALL, TUESDAY MORN., JUNE 27.


DEAR CAPTAIN TOMLINSON,

An unhappy misunderstanding has arisen between the dearest lady in the
world and me (the particulars of which she perhaps may give you, but I
will not, because I might be thought partial to myself;) and she refusing
to answer my most pressing and respectful letters; I am at a most
perplexing uncertainty whether she will meet us or not next Thursday to
solemnize.

My Lord is so extremely ill, that if I thought she would not oblige me,
I would defer going up to town for two or three days.  He cares not to
have me out of his sight: yet is impatient to salute my beloved as his
neice [sic] before he dies.  This I have promised to give him an
opportunity to do: intending, if the dear creature will make me happy,
to set out with her for this place directly from church.

With regret I speak it of the charmer of my soul, that irreconcilableness
is her family-fault--the less excusable indeed for her, as she herself
suffers by it in so high a degree from her own relations.

Now, Sir, as you intended to be in town some time before Thursday, if
it be not too great an inconvenience to you, I could be glad you would
go up as soon as possible, for my sake: and this I the more boldly
request, as I presume that a man who has so many great affairs of his
own in hand as you have, would be glad to be at a certainty as to the
day.

You, Sir, can so pathetically and justly set before her the unhappy
consequences that will follow if the day be postponed, as well with
regard to her uncle's disappointment, as to the part you have assured
me her mother is willing to take in the wished-for reconciliation, that
I have great hopes she will suffer herself to be prevailed upon.  And a
man and horse shall be in waiting to take your dispatches and bring them
to me.

But if you cannot prevail in my favour, you will be pleased to satisfy
your friend, Mr. John Harlowe, that it is not my fault that he is not
obliged.  I am, dear Sir,

Your extremely obliged
and faithful servant,
R. LOVELACE.



LETTER XLVI

TO ROBERT LOVELACE, ESQ.
WEDN. JUNE 28, NEAR TWELVE O'CLOCK.


HONOURED SIR,

I received your's, as your servant desired me to acquaint you, by ten
this morning.  Horse and man were in a foam.

I instantly equipped myself, as if come off from a journey, and posted
away to the lady, intending to plead great affairs that I came not
before, in order to favour your antedate; and likewise to be in a hurry,
to have a pretence to hurry her ladyship, and to take no denial for her
giving a satisfactory return to your messenger.  But, upon my entering
Mrs. Sinclair's house, I found all in the greatest consternation.

You must not, Sir, be surprised.  It is a trouble to me to be the
relater of the bad news; but so it is--The lady is gone off!  She was
missed but half an hour before I came.

Her waiting-maid is run away, or hitherto is not to be found: so that
they conclude it was by her connivance.

They had sent, before I came, to my honoured masters Mr. Belton, Mr.
Mowbray, and Mr. Belford.  Mr. Tourville is out of town.

High words are passing between Madam Sinclair, and Madam Horton, and
Madam Martin; as also with Dorcas.  And your servant William threatens
to hang or drown himself.

They have sent to know if they can hear of Mabell, the waiting-maid, at
her mother's, who it seems lives in Chick-lane, West-Smithfield; and to
an uncle of her's also, who keeps an alehouse at Cow-cross, had by, and
with whom she lived last.

Your messenger having just changed his horse, is come back: so I will
not detain him longer than to add, that I am, with great concern for this
misfortune, and thanks for your seasonable favour and kind intentions
towards me--I am sure this was not my fault--

Honoured Sir,
Your most obliged, humble servant,
PATRICK M'DONALD.



LETTER XLVII

MR. MOWBRAY, TO ROBERT LOVELACE, ESQ.
WEDNESDAY, TWELVE O'CLOCK.


DEAR LOVELACE,

I have plaguy news to acquaint thee with.  Miss Harlowe is gone off!--
Quite gone, by soul!--I have no time for particulars, your servant being
gone off.  But if I had, we are not yet come to the bottom of the matter.
The ladies here are all blubbering like devills, accusing one another
most confoundedly: whilst Belton and I damn them all together in thy
name.

If thou shouldst hear that thy fellow Will. is taken dead out of some
horse-pond, and Dorcas cut down from her bed's teaster, from dangling
in her own garters, be not surprised.  Here's the devil to pay.  Nobody
serene but Jack Belford, who is taking minutes of examinations,
accusations, and confessions, with the significant air of a Middlesex
Justice; and intends to write at large all particulars, I suppose.

I heartily condole with thee: so does Belton.  But it may turn out for
the best: for she is gone away with thy marks, I understand.  A foolish
little devill!  Where will she mend herself? for nobody will look upon
her.  And they tell me that thou wouldst certainly have married her, had
she staid.  But I know thee better.

Dear Bobby, adieu.  If Lord M. will die now, to comfort thee for this
loss, what a seasonable exit would he make!  Let's have a letter from
thee.  Pr'ythee do.  Thou can'st write devill-like to Belford, who shews
us nothing at all.  Thine heartily,

RD. MOWBRAY.



LETTER XLVIII

MR. BELFORD, TO ROBERT LOVELACE, ESQ.
THURSDAY, JUNE 29.


Thou hast heard from M'Donald and Mowbray the news.  Bad or good, I know
not which thou'lt deem it.  I only wish I could have given thee joy upon
the same account, before the unhappy lady was seduced from Hampstead; for
then of what an ungrateful villany hadst thou been spared the
perpetration, which now thou hast to answer for!

I came to town purely to serve thee with her, expecting that thy next
would satisfy me that I might endeavour it without dishonour.  And at
first when I found her gone, I half pitied thee; for now wilt thou be
inevitably blown up: and in what an execrable light wilt thou appear to
all the world!--Poor Lovelace! caught in thy own snares! thy punishment
is but beginning.

But to my narrative: for I suppose thou expectest all particulars from
me, since Mowbray has informed thee that I have been collecting them.

'The noble exertion of spirit she has made on Friday night, had, it
seems, greatly disordered her; insomuch that she was not visible till
Saturday evening; when Mabell saw her; and she seemed to be very ill:
but on Sunday morning, having dressed herself, as if designing to go to
church, she ordered Mabell to get her a coach to the door.

'The wench told her, She was to obey her in every thing but the calling
of a coach or chair, or in relation to letters.

'She sent for Will. and gave him the same command.

'He pleaded his master's orders to the contrary, and desired to be
excused.

'Upon this, down she went, herself, and would have gone out without
observation; but finding the street-door double-locked, and the key not
in the lock, she stept into the street-parlour, and would have thrown up
the sash to call out to the people passing by, as they doubted not: but
that, since her last attempt of the same nature, had been fastened down.

'Hereupon she resolutely stept into Mrs. Sinclair's parlour in the
back-house; where were the old devil and her two partners; and demanded
the key of the street-door, or to have it opened for her.

'They were all surprised; but desired to be excused, and pleaded your
orders.

'She asserted, that you had no authority over her; and never should have
any: that their present refusal was their own act and deed: she saw the
intent of their back house, and the reason of putting her there: she
pleaded her condition and fortune; and said, they had no way to avoid
utter ruin, but by opening their doors to her, or by murdering her, and
burying her in their garden or cellar, too deep for detection: that
already what had been done to her was punishable by death: and bid them
at their peril detain her.'

What a noble, what a right spirit has this charming creature, in cases
that will justify an exertion of spirit!--

'They answered that Mr. Lovelace could prove his marriage, and would
indemnify them.  And they all would have vindicated their behaviour on
Friday night, and the reputation of their house.  But refusing to hear
them on that topic, she flung from them threatening.

'She then went up half a dozen stairs in her way to her own apartment:
but, as if she had bethought herself, down she stept again, and proceeded
towards the street-parlour; saying, as she passed by the infamous Dorcas,
I'll make myself protectors, though the windows suffer.  But that wench,
of her own head, on the lady's going out of that parlour to Mrs.
Sinclair's, had locked the door, and taken out the key: so that finding
herself disappointed, she burst into tears, and went sobbing and menacing
up stairs again.

'She made no other attempt till the effectual one.  Your letters and
messages, they suppose, coming so fast upon one another (though she would
not answer one of them) gave her some amusement, and an assurance to
them, that she would at last forgive you; and that then all would end as
you wished.

'The women, in pursuance of your orders, offered not to obtrude
themselves upon her; and Dorcas also kept out of her sight all the rest
of Sunday; also on Monday and Tuesday.  But by the lady's condescension,
(even to familiarity) to Mabell, they imagined, that she must be working
in her mind all that time to get away.  They therefore redoubled their
cautions to the wench; who told them so faithfully all that passed
between her lady and her, that they had no doubt of her fidelity to her
wicked trust.

''Tis probable she might have been contriving something all this time;
but saw no room for perfecting any scheme.  The contrivance by which she
effected her escape seems to me not to have been fallen upon till the
very day; since it depended partly upon the weather, as it proved.  But
it is evident she hoped something from Mabell's simplicity, or gratitude,
or compassion, by cultivating all the time her civility to her.

'Polly waited on her early on Wednesday morning; and met with a better
reception than she had reason to expect.  She complained however, with
warmth, of her confinement.  Polly said there would be an happy end to it
(if it were a confinement,) next day, she presumed.  She absolutely
declared to the contrary, in the way Polly meant it; and said, That Mr.
Lovelace, on his return [which looked as if she intended to wait for it]
should have reason to repent the orders he had given, as they all should
their observance of them: let him send twenty letters, she would not
answer one, be the consequence what it would; nor give him hope of the
least favour, while she was in that house.  She had given Mrs. Sinclair
and themselves fair warning, she said: no orders of another ought to make
them detain a free person: but having made an open attempt to go, and
been detained by them, she was the calmer, she told Polly; let them look
to the consequence.

'But yet she spoke this with temper; and Polly gave it as her opinion,
(with apprehension for their own safety,) that having so good a handle to
punish them all, she would not go away if she might.  And what, inferred
Polly, is the indemnity of a man who has committed the vilest of rapes on
a person of condition; and must himself, if prosecuted for it, either
fly, or be hanged?

'Sinclair, [so I will still call her,] upon this representation of Polly,
foresaw, she said, the ruin of her poor house in the issue of this
strange business; and the infamous Sally and Dorcas bore their parts in
the apprehension: and this put them upon thinking it advisable for the
future, that the street-door should generally in the day-time be only
left upon a bolt-latch, as they called it, which any body might open on
the inside; and that the key should be kept in the door; that their
numerous comers and goers, as they called their guests, should be able to
give evidence, that she might have gone out if she would: not forgetting,
however, to renew their orders to Will. to Dorcas, to Mabell, and the
rest, to redouble their vigilance on this occasion, to prevent her
escape: none of them doubting, at the same time, that her love of a man
so considerable in their eyes, and the prospect of what was to happen, as
she had reason to believe, on Thursday, her uncle's birth-day, would
(though perhaps not till the last hour, for her pride sake, was their
word) engage her to change her temper.

'They believe, that she discovered the key to be left in the door; for
she was down more than once to walk in the little garden, and seemed to
cast her eye each time to the street-door.

'About eight yesterday morning, an hour after Polly had left her, she
told Mabell, she was sure she should not live long; and having a good
many suits of apparel, which after her death would be of no use to any
body she valued, she would give her a brown lustring gown, which, with
some alterations to make it more suitable to her degree, would a great
while serve her for a Sunday wear; for that she (Mabell) was the only
person in that house of whom she could think without terror or antipathy.

'Mabell expressing her gratitude upon the occasion, the lady said, she
had nothing to employ herself about, and if she could get a workwoman
directly, she would look over her things then, and give her what she
intended for her.

'Her mistress's mantua-maker, the maid replied, lived but a little way
off: and she doubted not that she could procure her, or one of the
journey-women to alter the gown out of hand.

'I will give you also, said she, a quilted coat, which will require but
little alteration, if any; for you are much about my stature: but the
gown I will give directions about, because the sleeves and the robings
and facings must be altered for your wear, being, I believe, above your
station: and try, said she, if you can get the workwoman, and we'll
advise about it.  If she cannot come now, let her come in the afternoon;
but I had rather now, because it will amuse me to give you a lift.

'Then stepping to the window, it rains, said she, [and so it had done all
the morning:] slip on the hood and short cloak I have seen you wear, and
come to me when you are ready to go out, because you shall bring me in
something that I want.

'Mabell equipped herself accordingly, and received her commands to buy
her some trifles, and then left her; but in her way out, stept into the
back parlour, where Dorcas was with Mrs. Sinclair, telling her where she
was going, and on what account, bidding Dorcas look out till she came
back.  So faithful as the wench to the trust reposed in her, and so
little had the lady's generosity wrought upon her.

'Mrs. Sinclair commended her; Dorcas envied her, and took her cue: and
Mabell soon returned with the mantua-maker's journey-woman; (she
resolved, she said, but she would not come without her); and then Dorcas
went off guard.

'The lady looked out the gown and petticoat, and before the workwoman
caused Mabell to try it on; and, that it might fit the better, made the
willing wench pull off her upper-petticoat, and put on that she gave her.
Then she bid them go into Mr. Lovelace's apartment, and contrive about it
before the pier-glass there, and stay till she came to them, to give them
her opinion.

'Mabell would have taken her own clothes, and hood, and short cloak with
her: but her lady said, No matter; you may put them on again here, when
we have considered about the alterations: there's no occasion to litter
the other room.

'They went; and instantly, as it is supposed, she slipt on Mabell's gown
and petticoat over her own, which was white damask, and put on the
wench's hood, short cloak, and ordinary apron, and down she went.

'Hearing somebody tripping along the passage, both Will. and Dorcas whipt
to the inner-hall door, and saw her; but, taking her for Mabell, Are you
going far, Mabell? cried Will.

'Without turning her face, or answering, she held out her hand, pointing
to the stairs; which they construed as a caution for them to look out in
her absence; and supposing she would not be long gone, as she had not in
form, repeated her caution to them, up went Will, tarrying at the
stairs-head in expectation of the supposed Mabell's return.

'Mabell and the workwoman waited a good while, amusing themselves not
disagreeably, the one with contriving in the way of her business, the
other delighting herself with her fine gown and coat.  But at last,
wondering the lady did not come in to them, Mabell tiptoed it to her
door, and tapping, and not being answered, stept into the chamber.

'Will. at that instant, from his station at the stairs-head, seeing
Mabell in her lady's clothes; for he had been told of the present, [gifts
to servants fly from servant to servant in a minute,] was very much
surprised, having, as he thought, just seen her go out in her own; and
stepping up, met her at the door.  How the devil can this be? said he:
just now you went out in your own dress!  How came you here in this? and
how could you pass me unseen? but nevertheless, kissing her, said, he
would now brag he had kissed his lady, or one in her clothes.

'I am glad, Mr. William, cried Mabell, to see you here so diligently.
But know you where my lady is?

'In my master's apartment, answered Will.  Is she not?  Was she not
talking with you this moment?

'No, that's Mrs. Dolins's journey-woman.

'They both stood aghast, as they said; Will, again recollecting he had
seen Mabell, as he thought, go out in her own clothes.  And while they
were debating and wondering, up comes Dorcas with your fourth letter,
just then brought for the lady, and seeing Mabell dressed out, (whom she
had likewise beheld a little before), as she supposed, in her common
clothes; she joined in the wonder; till Mabell, re-entering the lady's
apartment, missed her own clothes; and then suspecting what had happened,
and letting the others into the ground of the suspicion, they all agreed
that she had certainly escaped.  And then followed such an uproar of
mutual accusation, and you should have done this, and you have done that,
as alarmed the whole house; every apartment in both houses giving up its
devil, to the number of fourteen or fifteen, including the mother and her
partners.

'Will. told them his story; and then ran out, as on the like occasion
formerly, to make inquiry whether the lady was seen by any of the
coachmen, chairmen, or porters, plying in that neighbourhood: while
Dorcas cleared herself immediately, and that at the poor Mabell's
expense, who made a figure as guilty as awkward, having on the suspected
price of her treachery; which Dorcas, out of envy, was ready to tear from
her back.

'Hereupon all the pack opened at the poor wench, while the mother foamed
at the mouth, bellowed out her orders for seizing the suspected offender;
who could neither be heard in her own defence, nor had she been heard,
would have been believed.

'That such a perfidious wretch should ever disgrace her house, was the
mother's cry; good people might be corrupted; but it was a fine thing if
such a house as her's could not be faithfully served by cursed creatures
who were hired knowing the business they were to be employed in, and who
had no pretence to principle!--D--n her, the wretch proceeded!--She had
no patience with her! call the cook, and call the scullion!

'They were at hand.

'See, that guilty pyeball devil, was her word--(her lady's gown upon her
back)--but I'll punish her for a warning to all betrayers of their trust.
Put on the great gridiron this moment, [an oath or a curse at every
word:] make up a roaring fire--the cleaver bring me this instant--I'll
cut her into quarters with my own hands; and carbonade and broil the
traitress for a feast to all the dogs and cats in the neighbourhood, and
eat the first slice of the toad myself, without salt or pepper.

'The poor Mabell, frighted out of her wits, expected every moment to be
torn in pieces, having half a score open-clawed paws upon her all at
once.  She promised to confess all.  But that all, when she had obtained
a hearing, was nothing: for nothing had she to confess.

'Sally, hereupon with a curse of mercy, ordered her to retire;
undertaking that she and Polly would examine her themselves, that they
might be able to write all particulars to his honour; and then, if she
could not clear herself, or, if guilty, give some account of the lady,
(who had been so wicked as to give them all this trouble,) so as they
might get her again, then the cleaver and gridiron might go to work with
all their heart.

'The wench, glad of this reprieve, went up stairs; and while Sally was
laying out the law, and prating away in her usual dictorial manner, whipt
on another gown, and sliding down the stairs, escaped to her relations.
And this flight, which was certainly more owing to terror than guilt,
was, in the true Old Bailey construction, made a confirmation of the
latter.'


***


These are the particulars of Miss Harlowe's flight.  Thou'lt hardly think
me too minute.--How I long to triumph over thy impatience and fury on the
occasion!

Let me beseech thee, my dear Lovelace, in thy next letter, to rave most
gloriously!--I shall be grievously disappointed if thou dost not.


***


Where, Lovelace, can the poor lady be gone?  And who can describe the
distress she must be in?

By thy former letters, it may be supposed, that she can have very little
money: nor, by the suddenness of her flight, more clothes than those she
has on.  And thou knowest who once said,* 'Her parents will not receive
her.  Her uncles will not entertain her.  Her Norton is in their
direction, and cannot.  Miss Howe dare not.  She has not one friend or
intimate in town--entirely a stranger to it.'  And, let me add, has been
despoiled of her honour by the man for whom she had made all these
sacrifices; and who stood bound to her by a thousand oaths and vows, to
be her husband, her protector, and friend!


* See Vol. IV. Letter XXI.


How strong must be her resentment of the barbarous treatment she has
received! how worthy of herself, that it has made her hate the man she
once loved! and, rather than marry him, choose to expose her disgrace to
the whole world: to forego the reconciliation with her friends which her
heart was so set upon: and to hazard a thousand evils to which her youth
and her sex may too probably expose an indigent and friendly beauty!

Rememberest thou not that home push upon thee, in one of the papers
written in her delirium; of which, however it savours not?----

I will assure thee, that I have very often since most seriously reflected
upon it: and as thy intended second outrage convinces me that it made no
impression upon thee then, and perhaps thou hast never thought of it
since, I will transcribe the sentence.

'If, as religion teaches us, God will judge us, in a great measure! by
our benevolent or evil actions to one another--O wretch! bethink thee, in
time bethink thee, how great must be thy condemnation.'*


* See Vol. VI. Letter XVI.


And is this amiable doctrine the sum of religion?  Upon my faith,
believe it is.  For, to indulge a serious thought, since we are not
atheists, except in practice, does God, the BEING of Beings, want any
thing of us for HIMSELF!  And does he not enjoin us works of mercy to one
another, as the means to obtain his mercy?  A sublime principle, and
worthy of the SUPREME SUPERINTENDENT and FATHER of all things!--But if we
are to be judged by this noble principle, what, indeed, must be thy
condemnation on the score of this lady only? and what mine, and what all
our confraternity's, on the score of other women: though we are none of
us half so bad as thou art, as well for want of inclination, I hope, as
of opportunity!

I must add, that, as well for thy own sake, as for the lady's, I wish ye
were yet to be married to each other.  It is the only medium that can be
hit upon to salve the honour of both.  All that's past may yet be
concealed from the world, and from all her sufferings, if thou resolvest
to be a tender and kind husband to her.

And if this really be thy intention, I will accept with pleasure of a
commission from thee that shall tend to promote so good an end, whenever
she can be found; that is to say, if she will admit to her presence a man
who professes friendship to thee.  Nor can I give a greater
demonstration, that I am

Thy sincere friend,
J. BELFORD.

P.S. Mabell's clothes were thrown into the passage this morning: nobody
knows by whom.



LETTER XLIX

MR. LOVELACE, TO JOHN BELFORD, ESQ.
FRIDAY, JUNE 30.


I am ruined, undone, blown up, destroyed, and worse than annihilated,
that's certain!--But was not the news shocking enough, dost thou think,
without thy throwing into the too-weighty scale reproaches, which thou
couldst have had no opportunity to make but for my own voluntary
communications? at a time too, when, as it falls out, I have another very
sensible disappointment to struggle with?

I imagine, if there be such a thing as future punishment, it must be none
of the smallest mortifications, that a new devil shall be punished by a
worse old one.  And, take that!  And, take that! to have the old satyr
cry to the screaming sufferer, laying on with a cat-o'-nine-tails, with a
star of burning brass at the end of each: and, for what! for what!---Why,
if the truth may be fairly told, for not being so bad a devil as myself.

Thou art, surely, casuist good enough to know, (what I have insisted
upon* heretofore,) that the sin of seducing a credulous and easy girl, is
as great as that of bringing to your lure an incredulous and watchful
one.


* See Vol. IV. Letter XVII.


However ungenerous an appearance what I am going to say may have from my
pen, let me tell thee, that if such a woman as Miss Harlowe chose to
enter into the matrimonial state, [I am resolved to disappoint thee in
thy meditated triumph over my rage and despair!] and, according to the
old patriarchal system, to go on contributing to get sons and daughters,
with no other view than to bring them up piously, and to be good and
useful members of the commonwealth, what a devil had she to do, to let
her fancy run a gadding after a rake? one whom she knew to be a rake?

Oh! but truly she hoped to have the merit of reclaiming him.  She had
formed pretty notions how charming it would look to have a penitent of
her own making dangling at her side at church, through an applauding
neighbourhood: and, as their family increased, marching with her thither,
at the head of their boys and girls, processionally, as it were, boasting
of the fruits of their honest desires, as my good lord bishop has it in
his license.  And then, what a comely sight, all kneeling down together
in one pew, according to eldership as we have seen in effigy, a whole
family upon some old monument, where the honest chevalier in armour is
presented kneeling, with up-lifted hands, and half a dozen jolter-headed
crop-eared boys behind him, ranged gradatim, or step-fashion according to
age and size, all in the same posture--facing his pious dame, with a ruff
about her neck, and as many whey-faced girls all kneeling behind her: an
altar between them, and an open book upon it: over their heads
semiluminary rays darting from gilded clouds, surrounding an achievement-
motto, IN COELO SALUS--or QUIES--perhaps, if they have happened to live
the usual married life of brawl and contradiction.

It is certainly as much my misfortune to have fallen in with Miss
Clarissa Harlowe, were I to have valued my reputation or ease, as it is
that of Miss Harlowe to have been acquainted with me.  And, after all,
what have I done more than prosecute the maxim, by which thou and I and
every rake are governed, and which, before I knew this lady, we have
pursued from pretty girl to pretty girl, as fast as we have set one down,
taking another up;--just as the fellows do with their flying coaches and
flying horses at a country fair----with a Who rides next!  Who rides
next!

But here in the present case, to carry on the volant metaphor, (for I
must either be merry, or mad,) is a pretty little miss just come out of
her hanging-sleeve-coat, brought to buy a pretty little fairing; for the
world, Jack, is but a great fair, thou knowest; and, to give thee serious
reflection for serious, all its joys but tinselled hobby-horses, gilt
gingerbread, squeaking trumpets, painted drums, and so forth.

Now behold this pretty little miss skimming from booth to booth, in a
very pretty manner.  One pretty little fellow called Wyerley, perhaps;
another jiggeting rascal called Biron, a third simpering varlet of the
name of Symmes, and a more hideous villain than any of the reset, with a
long bag under his arm, and parchment settlements tagged to his heels,
yelped Solmes: pursue her from raree-show to raree-show, shouldering upon
one another at every turn, stopping when she stops, and set a spinning
again when she moves.  And thus dangled after, but still in the eye of
her watchful guardians, traverses the pretty little miss through the
whole fair, equally delighted and delighting: till at last, taken with
the invitation of the laced-hat orator, and seeing several pretty little
bib-wearers stuck together in the flying-coaches, cutting safely the
yielding air, in the one-go-up the other go-down picture-of-the-world
vehicle, and all with as little fear as wit, is tempted to ride next.

In then suppose she slily pops, when none of her friends are near her:
And if, after two or three ups and downs, her pretty head turns giddy,
and she throws herself out of the coach when at its elevation, and so
dashes out her pretty little brains, who can help it?--And would you hang
the poor fellow, whose professed trade it was to set the pretty little
creature a flying?

'Tis true, this pretty little miss, being a very pretty little miss,
being a very much-admired little miss, being a very good little miss, who
always minded her book, and had passed through her sampler-doctrine with
high applause; had even stitched out, in gaudy propriety of colors, an
Abraham offering up Isaac, a Sampson and the Philistines; and flowers,
and knots, and trees, and the sun and the moon, and the seven stars, all
hung up in frames with glasses before them, for the admiration of her
future grand children: who likewise was entitled to a very pretty little
estate: who was descended from a pretty little family upwards of one
hundred years gentility; which lived in a very pretty little manner,
respected a very little on their own accounts, a great deal on her's:----

For such a pretty little miss as this to come to so great a misfortune,
must be a very sad thing: But, tell me, would not the losing of any
ordinary child, of any other less considerable family, or less shining or
amiable qualities, have been as great and heavy a loss to that family, as
the losing this pretty little miss could be to her's?

To descend to a very low instance, and that only as to personality; hast
thou any doubt, that thy strong-muscled bony-faced was as much admired by
thy mother, as if it had been the face of a Lovelace, or any other
handsome fellow?  And had thy picture been drawn, would she have forgiven
the painter, had he not expressed so exactly thy lineaments, as that
every one should have discerned the likeness?  The handsome likeness is
all that is wished for.  Ugliness made familiar to us, with the
partiality natural to fond parents, will be beauty all the world over.--
Do thou apply.

But, alas! Jack, all this is but a copy of my countenance, drawn to evade
thy malice!--Though it answer thy unfriendly purpose to own it, I cannot
forbear to own it, that I am stung to the very soul with this unhappy--
accident, must I call it!--Have I nobody, whose throat, either for
carelessness or treachery, I ought to cut, in order to pacify my
vengeance?

When I reflect upon my last iniquitous intention, the first outrage so
nobly resented, as well as, so far as she was able, so nobly resisted, I
cannot but conclude, that I was under the power of fascination from these
accursed Circes; who, pretending to know their own sex, would have it,
that there is in every woman a yielding, or a weak-resisting moment to be
met with: and that yet, and yet, and yet, I had not tried enough; but
that, if neither love nor terror should enable me to hit that lucky
moment, when, by help of their cursed arts, she was once overcome, she
would be for ever overcome:--appealing to all my experience, to all my
knowledge of the sex, for justification of their assertion.

My appeal to experience, I own, was but too favourable to their argument:
For dost thou think I could have held my purpose against such an angel as
this, had I ever before met with a woman so much in earnest to defend her
honour against the unwearied artifices and perseverance of the man she
loved?  Why then were there not more examples of a virtue so immovable?
Or, why was this singular one to fall to my lot? except indeed to double
my guilt; and at the same time to convince all that should hear her
story, that there are angels as well as devils in the flesh?

So much for confession; and for the sake of humouring my conscience; with
a view likewise to disarm thy malice by acknowledgement: since no one shall
say worse of me, than I will of myself on this occasion.

One thing I will nevertheless add, to show the sincerity of my contrition
--'Tis this, that if thou canst by any means find her out within these
three days, or any time before she has discovered the stories relating to
Captain Tomlinson and her uncle to be what they are; and if thou canst
prevail upon her to consent, I will actually, in thy presence and his,
(he to represent her uncle,) marry her.

I am still in hopes it may be so--she cannot be long concealed--I have
already set all engines at work to find her out! and if I do, what
indifferent persons, [and no one of her friends, as thou observest, will
look upon her,] will care to embroil themselves with a man of my figure,
fortune, and resolution?  Show her this part, then, or any other part of
this letter, as thy own discretion, if thou canst find her: for, after
all, methinks, I would be glad that this affair, which is bad enough in
itself, should go off without worse personal consequences to any body
else: and yet it runs in my mind, I know not why, that, sooner or later
it will draw a few drops of blood after it; except she and I can make it
up between ourselves.  And this may be another reason why she should not
carry her resentment too far--not that such an affair would give me much
concern neither, were I to choose any man of men, for I heartily hate all
her family, but herself; and ever shall.


***


Let me add, that the lady's plot to escape appears to me no extraordinary
one.  There was much more luck than probability that it should do: since,
to make it succeed, it was necessary that Dorcas and Will., and Sinclair
and her nymphs, should be all deceived, or off their guard.  It belongs
to me, when I see them, to give them my hearty thanks that they were; and
that their selfish care to provide for their own future security, should
induce them to leave their outward door upon their bolt-latch, and be
curs'd to them.

Mabell deserves a pitch suit and a bonfire, rather than the lustring; and
as her clothes are returned, le the lady's be put to her others, to be
sent to her when it can be told whither--but not till I give the word
neither; for we must get the dear fugitive back again if possible.

I suppose that my stupid villain, who knew not such a goddess-shaped lady
with a mien so noble, from the awkward and bent-shouldered Mabell, has
been at Hampstead to see after her.  And yet I hardly think she would go
thither.  He ought to go through every street where bills for lodgings
are up, to inquire after a new-comer.  The houses of such as deal in
women's matters, and tea, coffee, and such-like, are those to be inquired
at for her.  If some tidings be not quickly heard of her, I would not
have either Dorcas, Will., or Mabell, appear in my sight, whatever their
superiors think fit to do.

This, though written in character, is a very long letter, considering it
is not a narrative one, or a journal of proceedings, like most of my
former; for such will unavoidably and naturally, as I may say, run into
length.  But I have so used myself to write a great deal of late, that I
know not how to help it.  Yet I must add to its length, in order to
explain myself on a hint I gave at the beginning of it; which was, that I
have another disappointment, besides this of Miss Harlowe's escape, to
bemoan.

And what dost thou think it is?  Why, the old Peer, pox of his tough
constitution, (for that malady would have helped him on,) has made shift
by fire and brimstone, and the devil knows what, to force the gout to
quit the counterscarp of his stomach, just as it had collected all its
strength, in order to storm the citadel of his heart.  In short, they
have, by the mere force of stink-pots, hand-granades, and pop-guns,
driven the slow-working pioneer quite out of the trunk into the
extremities; and there it lies nibbling and gnawing upon his great toe;
when I had a fair end of the distemper and the distempered.

But I, who could write to thee of laudanum, and the wet cloth, formerly,
yet let 8000£. a year slip through my fingers, when I had entered upon it
more than in imagination, [for I had begun to ask the stewards questions,
and to hear them talk of fines and renewals, and such sort of stuff,]
deserve to be mortified.

Thou canst not imagine how differently the servants, and even my cousins,
look upon me, since yesterday, to what they did before.  Neither the one
nor the other bow or courtesy half so low--nor am I a quarter so often
his honour and your honour, as I was within these few hours, with the
former: and as to the latter--it is cousin Bobby again, with the usual
familiarity, instead of Sir, and Sir, and If you please, Mr. Lovelace.
And now they have the insolence to congratulate me on the recovery of the
best of uncles; while I am forced to seem as much delighted as they,
when, would it do me good, I could sit down and cry my eyes out.

I had bespoke my mourning in imagination, after the example of a certain
foreign minister, who, before the death, or even last illness of Charles
II., as honest White Kennet tells us, had half exhausted Blackwell-hall
of its sables--an indication, as the historian would insinuate, that the
monarch was to be poisoned, and the ambassador in the secret.--And yet,
fool that I was, I could not take the hint--What the devil does a man
read history for, if he cannot profit by the examples he find in it?

But thus, Jack, is an observation of the old Peer's verified, that one
misfortune seldom comes alone: and so concludes

Thy doubly mortified
LOVELACE.



LETTER L

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE
WEDNESDAY NIGHT, JUNE 28.


O MY DEAREST MISS HOWE!

Once more have I escaped--But, alas! I, my best self, have not escaped!
--Oh! your poor Clarissa Harlowe! you also will hate me, I fear!----

Yet you won't, when you know all!

But no more of my self! my lost self.  You that can rise in a morning to
be blest, and to bless; and go to rest delighted with your own
reflections, and in your unbroken, unstarting slumbers, conversing with
saints and angels, the former only more pure than yourself, as they have
shaken off the incumbrance of body; you shall be my subject, as you have
long, long, been my only pleasure.  And let me, at awful distance, revere
my beloved Anna Howe, and in her reflect upon what her Clarissa Harlowe
once was!


***


Forgive, O forgive my rambling.  My peace is destroyed.  My intellects
are touched.  And what flighty nonsense must you read, if you now will
vouchsafe to correspond with me, as formerly!

O my best, my dearest, my only friend! what a tale have I to unfold!--
But still upon self, this vile, this hated self!--I will shake it off, if
possible; and why should I not, since I think, except one wretch, I hate
nothing so much?  Self, then, be banished from self one moment (for I
doubt it will be for no longer) to inquire after a dearer object, my
beloved Anna Howe!--whose mind, all robed in spotless white, charms and
irradiates--But what would I say?----


***


And how, my dearest friend, after this rhapsody, which on re-perusal, I
would not let go, but to show you what a distracted mind dictates to my
trembling pen!  How do you?  You have been very ill, it seems.  That you
are recovered, my dear, let me hear.  That your mother is well, pray let
me hear, and hear quickly.  This comfort surely is owing to me; for if
life is no worse than chequer-work, I must now have a little white to
come, having seen nothing but black, all unchequered dismal black, for a
great, great while.


***


And what is all this wild incoherence for?  It is only to beg to know how
you have been, and how you do now, by a line directed for Mrs. Rachel
Clark, at Mr. Smith's, a glove-shop, in King-street, Covent-garden; which
(although my abode is secret to every body else) will reach the hands of
--your unhappy--but that's not enough----

Your miserable
CLARISSA HARLOWE.



LETTER LI

MRS. HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE
[SUPERSCRIBED AS DIRECTED IN THE PRECEDING.]
FRIDAY, JUNE 30.


MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE,

You will wonder to receive a letter from me.  I am sorry for the great
distress you seem to be in.  Such a hopeful young lady as you were!  But
see what comes of disobedience to parents!

For my part; although I pity you, yet I much more pity your poor father
and mother.  Such education as they gave you! such improvement as you
made! and such delight as they took in you!--And all come to this!--

But pray, Miss, don't make my Nancy guilt of your fault; which is that of
disobedience.  I have charged her over and over not to correspond with
one who had made such a giddy step.  It is not to her reputation, I am
sure.  You know that I so charged her; yet you go on corresponding
together, to my very great vexation; for she has been very perverse upon
it more than once.  Evil communication, Miss--you know the rest.

Here, people cannot be unhappy by themselves, but they must invoke their
friends and acquaintance whose discretion has kept them clear of their
errors, into near as much unhappiness as if they had run into the like
of their own heads!  Thus my poor daughter is always in tears and grief.
And she has postponed her own felicity, truly, because you are unhappy.

If people, who seek their own ruin, could be the only sufferers by their
headstrong doings, it were something: But, O Miss, Miss! what have you to
answer for, who have made as many grieved hearts as have known you!  The
whole sex is indeed wounded by you: For, who but Miss Clarissa Harlowe
was proposed by every father and mother for a pattern for their
daughters?

I write a long letter, where I proposed to say but a few words; and those
to forbid your writing to my Nancy: and this as well because of the false
step you have made, as because it will grieve her poor heart, and do you
no good.  If you love her, therefore, write not to her.  Your sad letter
came into my hands, Nancy being abroad: and I shall not show it her: for
there would be no comfort for her, if she saw it, nor for me, whose
delight she is--as you once was to your parents.--

But you seem to be sensible enough of your errors now.--So are all giddy
girls, when it is too late: and what a crest-fallen figure then do the
consequences of their self-willed obstinacy and headstrongness compel
them to make!

I may say too much: only as I think it proper to bear that testimony
against your rashness which it behoves every careful parent to bear: and
none more than

Your compassionating, well-wishing
ANNABELLA HOWE.

I send this by a special messenger, who has business only so far as
   Barnet, because you shall have no need to write again; knowing how
   you love writing: and knowing, likewise, that misfortune makes people
   plaintive.



LETTER LII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MRS. HOWE.
SATURDAY, JULY 1.


Permit me, Madam, to trouble you with a few lines, were it only to thank
you for your reproofs; which have nevertheless drawn fresh streams of
blood from a bleeding heart.

My story is a dismal story.  It has circumstances in it that would engage
pity, and possibly a judgment not altogether unfavourable, were those
circumstances known.  But it is my business, and shall be all my
business, to repent of my failings, and not endeavour to extenuate them.

Nor will I seek to distress your worthy mind.  If I cannot suffer alone,
I will make as few parties as I can in my sufferings.  And, indeed, I
took up my pen with this resolution when I wrote the letter which has
fallen into your hands.  It was only to know, and that for a very
particular reason, as well as for affection unbounded, if my dear Miss
Howe, from whom I had not heard of a long time, were ill; as I had been
told she was; and if so, how she now does.  But my injuries being recent,
and my distresses having been exceeding great, self would crowd into my
letter.  When distressed, the human mind is apt to turn itself to every
one, in whom it imagined or wished an interest, for pity and consolation.
--Or, to express myself better, and more concisely, in your own words,
misfortune makes people plaintive: And to whom, if not to a friend, can
the afflicted complain?

Miss Howe being abroad when my letter came, I flatter myself that she is
recovered.  But it would be some satisfaction to me to be informed if she
has been ill.  Another line from your hand would be too great a favour:
but if you will be pleased to direct any servant to answer yes, or no, to
that question, I will not be farther troublesome.

Nevertheless, I must declare, that my Miss Howe's friendship was all the
comfort I had, or expected to have in this world; and a line from her
would have been a cordial to my fainting heart.  Judge then, dearest
Madam, how reluctantly I must obey your prohibition--but yet I will
endeavour to obey it; although I should have hoped, as well from the
tenor of all that has passed between Miss Howe and me, as from her
established virtue, that she could not be tainted by evil communication,
had one or two letters been permitted.  This, however, I ask not for,
since I think I have nothing to do but to beg of God (who, I hope, has
not yet withdrawn his grace from me, although he has pleaded to let loose
his justice upon my faults) to give me a truly broken spirit, if it be
not already broken enough, and then to take to his mercy

The unhappy
CLARISSA HARLOWE.

Two favours, good Madam, I have to beg of you.--The first,--that you will
   not let any of my relations know that you have heard from me.  The
   other,--that no living creature be apprized where I am to be heard of,
   or directed to.  This is a point that concerns me more than I can
   express.--In short, my preservation from further evils may depend upon
   it.



LETTER LIII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO HANNAH BURTON
THURSDAY, JUNE 29.


MY GOOD HANNAH,

Strange things have happened to me, since you were dismissed my service
(so sorely against my will) and your pert fellow servant set over me.
But that must all be forgotten now--

How do you, my Hannah?  Are you recovered of your illness?  If you are,
do you choose to come and be with me?  Or can you conveniently?

I am a very unhappy creature, and, being among all strangers, should be
very glad to have you with me, of whose fidelity and love I have had so
many acceptable instances.

Living or dying, I will endeavour to make it worth your while, my Hannah.

If you are recovered, as I hope, and if you have a good place, it may be
they would bear with your absence, and suffer somebody in your room for a
month or so: and, by that time, I hope to be provided for, and you may
then return to your place.

Don't let any of my friends know of this my desire: whether you can come
or not.

I am at Mr. Smith's, a hosier's and glove shop, in King-street,
Covent-garden.

You must direct to me by the name of Rachel Clark.

Do, my good Hannah, come if you can to your poor young mistress, who
always valued you, and always will whether you come or not.

I send this to your mother at St. Alban's, not knowing where to direct
to you.  Return me a line, that I may know what to depend upon: and I
shall see you have not forgotten the pretty hand you were taught, in
happy days, by

Your true friend,
CLARISSA HARLOWE.



LETTER LIV

HANNAH BURTON
[IN ANSWER.]
MONDAY, JULY 3.


HONORED MADDAM,

I have not forgot to write, and never will forget any thing you, my dear
young lady, was so good as to larn me.  I am very sorrowful for your
misfortens, my dearest young lady; so sorrowfull, I do not know what to
do.  Gladd at harte would I be to be able to come to you.  But indeed I
have not been able to stir out of my rome here at my mother's ever since
I was forsed to leave my plase with a roomatise, which has made me quite
and clene helpless.  I will pray for you night and day, my dearest, my
kindest, my goodest young lady, who have been so badly used; and I am
very sorry I cannot come to do you love and sarvice; which will ever be
in the harte of mee to do, if it was in my power: who am

Your most dutiful servant to command,
HANNAH BURTON.



LETTER LV

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MRS. JUDITH NORTON
THURSDAY, JUNE 29.


MY DEAR MRS. NORTON,

I address myself to you, after a very long silence, (which, however, was
not owing either to want of love or duty,) principally to desire you to
satisfy me in two or three points, which it behoves me to know.

My father, and all the family, I am informed, are to be at my uncle
Harlowe's this day, as usual.  Pray acquaint me, if they have been there?
And if they were cheerful on the anniversary occasion?  And also, if you
have heard of any journey, or intended journey, of my brother, in company
with Captain Singleton and Mr. Solmes?

Strange things have happened to me, my dear, worthy and maternal friend--
very strange things!--Mr. Lovelace has proved a very barbarous and
ungrateful man to me.  But, God be praised, I have escaped from him.
Being among absolute strangers (though I think worthy folks) I have
written to Hannah Burton to come and be with me.  If the good creature
fall in your way, pray encourage her to come to me.  I always intended
to have her, she knows: but hoped to be in happier circumstances.

Say nothing to any of my friends that you have heard from me.

Pray, do you think my father would be prevailed upon, if I were to
supplicate him by letter, to take off the heavy curse he laid upon me at
my going from Harlowe-place?  I can expect no other favour from him.  But
that being literally fulfilled as to my prospects in this life, I hope it
will be thought to have operated far enough; and my heart is so weak!--it
is very weak!--But for my father's own sake--what should I say!--Indeed I
hardly know how I ought to express myself on this sad subject!--but it
will give ease to my mind to be released from it.

I am afraid my Poor, as I used to call the good creatures to whose
necessities I was wont to administer by your faithful hands, have missed
me of late.  But now, alas! I am poor myself.  It is not the least
aggravation of my fault, nor of my regrets, that with such inclinations
as God has given me, I have put it our of my power to do the good I once
pleased myself to think I was born to do.  It is a sad thing, my dearest
Mrs. Nortin, to render useless to ourselves and the world, by our own
rashness, the talents which Providence has intrusted to us, for the
service of both.

But these reflections are now too late; and perhaps I ought to have kept
them to myself.  Let me, however, hope that you love me still.  Pray let
me hope that you do.  And then, notwithstanding my misfortunes, which
have made me seem ungrateful to the kind and truly maternal pains you
have taken with me from my cradle, I shall have the happiness to think
that there is one worthy person, who hates not

The unfortunate
CLARISSA HARLOWE.

Pray remember me to my foster-brother.  I hope he continues dutiful and
   good to you.
Be pleased to direct for Rachel Clark, at Mr. Smith's, in King-street,
   Covent-garden.  But keep the direction an absolute secret.



LETTER LVI

MRS. NORTON
[IN ANSWER.]
SATURDAY, JULY 1.


Your letter, my dearest young lady, cuts me to the heart!  Why will you
not let me know all your distresses?--Yet you have said enough!

My son is very good to me.  A few hours ago he was taken with a feverish
disorder.  But I hope it will go off happily, if his ardour for business
will give him the recess from it which his good master is willing to
allow him.  He presents his duty to you, and shed tears at hearing your
sad letter read.

You have been misinformed as to your family's being at your uncle
Harlowe's.  They did not intend to be there.  Nor was the day kept at
all.  Indeed, they have not stirred out, but to church (and that but
three times) ever since the day you went away.--Unhappy day for them, and
for all who know you!--To me, I am sure, most particularly so!--My heart
now bleeds more and more for you.

I have not heard a syllable of such a journey as you mentioned of your
brother, Captain Singleton, and Mr. Solmes.  There has been some talk
indeed of your brother's setting out for his northern estates: but I have
not heard of it lately.

I am afraid no letter will be received from you.  It grieves me to tell
you so, my dearest young lady.  No evil can have happened to you, which
they do not expect to hear of; so great is their antipathy to the wicked
man, and so bad is his character.

I cannot but think hardly of their unforgiveness: but there is no judging
for others by one's self.  Nevertheless I will add, that, if you had had
as gentle spirits as mine, these evils had never happened either to them
or to you.  I knew your virtue, and your love of virtue, from your very
cradle; and I doubted not but that, with God's grace, would always be
your guard.  But you could never be driven; nor was there occasion to
drive you--so generous, so noble, so discreet.--But how does my love of
your amiable qualities increase my affliction; as these recollections
must do your's!

You are escaped, my dearest Miss--happily, I hope--that is to say, with
your honour--else, how great must be your distress!--Yet, from your
letter, I dread the worst.

I am very seldom at Harlowe-place.  The house is not the house it used to
be, since you went from it.  Then they are so relentless!  And, as I
cannot say harsh things of the beloved child of my heart, as well as
bosom, they do not take it amiss that I stay away.

Your Hannah left her place ill some time ago! and, as she is still at her
mother's at St. Alban's, I am afraid she continues ill.  If so, as you
are among strangers, and I cannot encourage you at present to come into
these parts, I shall think it my duty to attend you (let it be taken as
it will) as soon as my Tommy's indisposition will permit; which I hope
will be soon.

I have a little money by me.  You say you are poor yourself.--How
grievous are those words from one entitled and accustomed to affluence!--
Will you be so good to command it, my beloved young lady?--It is most of
it your own bounty to me.  And I should take a pride to restore it to its
original owner.

Your Poor bless you, and pray for you continually.  I have so managed
your last benevolence, and they have been so healthy, and have had such
constant employ, that it has held out; and will hold out till the happier
times return, which I continually pray for.

Let me beg of you, my dearest young lady, to take to yourself all those
aids which good persons, like you, draw from RELIGION, in support of
their calamities.  Let your sufferings be what they will, I am sure you
have been innocent in your intention.  So do not despond.  None are made
to suffer above what they can, and therefore ought to bear.

We know not the methods of Providence, nor what wise ends it may have to
serve in its seemingly-severe dispensations to its poor creatures.

Few persons have greater reason to say this than myself.  And since we
are apt in calamities to draw more comfort from example than precept, you
will permit me to remind you of my own lot: For who has had a greater
share of afflictions than myself?

To say nothing of the loss of an excellent mother, at a time of life when
motherly care is most wanted; the death of a dear father, who was an
ornament to his cloth, (and who had qualified me to be his scribe and
amanuensis,) just as he came within view of a preferment which would have
made his family easy, threw me friendless into the wide world; threw me
upon a very careless, and, which was much worse, a very unkind husband.
Poor man!--but he was spared long enough, thank God, in a tedious
illness, to repent of his neglected opportunities, and his light
principles; which I have always thought of with pleasure, although I was
left the more destitute for his chargeable illness, and ready to be
brought to bed, when he died, of my Tommy.

But this very circumstance, which I thought the unhappiest that I could
have been left in, (so short-sighted is human prudence!) became the happy
means of recommending me to your mother, who, in regard to my character,
and in compassion to my very destitute circumstances, permitted me, as I
made a conscience of not parting with my poor boy, to nurse both you and
him, born within a few days of each other.  And I have never since wanted
any of the humble blessings which God has made me contented with.


Nor have I known what a very great grief was, from the day of my poor
husband's death till the day that your parents told me how much they were
determined that you should have Mr. Solmes; when I was apprized not only
of your aversion to him, but how unworthy he was of you: for then I began
to dread the consequences of forcing so generous a spirit; and, till
then, I never feared Mr. Lovelace, attracting as was his person, and
specious his manners and address.  For I was sure you would never have
him, if he gave you not good reason to be convinced of his reformation:
nor till your friends were as well satisfied in it as yourself.  But that
unhappy misunderstanding between your brother and Mr. Lovelace, and their
joining so violently to force you upon Mr. Solmes, did all that mischief,
which has cost you and them so dear, and poor me all my peace!  Oh! what
has not this ungrateful, this double-guilty man to answer for!

Nevertheless, you know not what God has in store for you yet!--But if you
are to be punished all your days here, for example sake, in a case of
such importance, for your one false step, be pleased to consider, that
this life is but a state of probation; and if you have your purification
in it, you will be the more happy.  Nor doubt I, that you will have the
higher reward hereafter for submitting to the will of Providence here
with patience and resignation.

You see, my dearest Miss Clary, that I make no scruple to call the step
you took a false one.  In you it was less excusable than it would have
been in any other young lady; not only because of your superior talents,
but because of the opposition between your character and his: so that, if
you had been provoked to quit your father's house, it need not to have
been with him.  Nor needed I, indeed, but as an instance of my impartial
love, to have written this to you.*


* Mrs. Norton, having only the family representation and invectives to
form her judgment upon, knew not that Clarissa had determined against
going off with Mr. Lovelace; nor how solicitous she had been to procure
for herself any other protection than his, when she apprehended that, if
she staid, she had no way to avoid being married to Mr. Solmes.


After this, it will have an unkind, and perhaps at this time an
unseasonable appearance, to express my concern that you have not before
favoured me with a line.  Yet if you can account to yourself for your
silence, I dare say I ought to be satisfied; for I am sure you love me:
as I both love and honour you, and ever will, and the more for your
misfortunes.

One consolation, methinks, I have, even when I am sorrowing for your
calamities; and that is, that I know not any young person so qualified to
shine the brighter for the trials she may be exercised with: and yet it
is a consolation that ends in adding to my regrets for your afflictions,
because you are blessed with a mind so well able to bear prosperity, and
to make every body round you the better for it!--But I will forbear till
I know more.

Ruminating on every thing your melancholy letter suggests, and
apprehending, from the gentleness of your mind, the amiableness of your
person, and your youth, the farther misfortunes and inconveniencies to
which you may possibly be subjected, I cannot conclude without asking for
your leave to attend you, and that in a very earnest manner--and I beg of
you not to deny me, on any consideration relating to myself, or even to
the indisposition of my other beloved child, if I can be either of use or
of comfort to you.  Were it, my dearest young lady, but for two or three
days, permit me to attend you, although my son's illness should increase,
and compel me to come down again at the end of those two or three days.--
I repeat my request, likewise, that you will command from me the little
sum remaining in the hands of your bounty to your Poor, as well as that
dispensed to

Your ever-affectionate and faithful servant,
JUDITH NORTON.



LETTER LVII

MISS CL. HARLOWE, TO LADY BETTY LAWRANCE
THURSDAY, JUNE 29.


MADAM,

I hope you'll excuse the freedom of this address, from one who has not
the honour to be personally known to you, although you must have heard
much of Clarissa Harlowe.  It is only to beg the favour of a line from
your Ladyship's hand, (by the next post, if convenient,) in answer to the
following questions:

1.  Whether you wrote a letter, dated, as I have a memorandum, Wedn. June
    7, congratulating your nephew Lovelace on his supposed nuptials, as
    reported to you by Mr. Spurrier, your Ladyship's steward, as from one
    Captain Tomlinson:--and in it reproaching Mr. Lovelace, as guilty of
    slight, &c. in not having acquainted your Ladyship and the family
    with his marriage?

2.  Whether your ladyship wrote to Miss Montague to meet you at Reading,
    in order to attend you to your cousin Leeson's, in Albemarle-street;
    on your being obliged to be in town on your old chancery affair, I
    remember are the words? and whether you bespoke your nephew's
    attendance there on Sunday night the 11th?

3.  Whether your Ladyship and Miss Montague did come to town at that
    time; and whether you went to Hampstead, on Monday, in a hired coach
    and four, your own being repairing, and took from thence to town with
    the young creature whom you visited there?

Your Ladyship will probably guess, that the questions are not asked for
reasons favourable to your nephew Lovelace.  But be the answer what it
will, it can do him no hurt, nor me any good; only that I think I owe it
to my former hopes, (however deceived in them,) and even to charity, that
a person, of whom I was once willing to think better, should not prove so
egregiously abandoned, as to be wanting, in every instance, to that
veracity which is indispensable in the character of a gentleman.

Be pleased, Madam, to direct to me, (keeping the direction a secret for
the present,) to be left at the Belle-Savage, on Ludgate hill, till
called for.  I am

Your Ladyship's most humble servant,
CLARISSA HARLOWE.



LETTER LVIII

LADY BETTY LAWRANCE, TO MISS CL. HARLOWE
SATURDAY, JULY 1.


DEAR MADAM,

I find that all is not as it should be between you and my nephew
Lovelace.  It will very much afflict me, and all his friends, if he has
been guilty of any designed baseness to a lady of your character and
merit.

We have been long in expectation of an opportunity to congratulate you
and ourselves upon an event most earnestly wished for by us all; since
our hopes of him are built upon the power you have over him: for if ever
man adored a woman, he is that man, and you, Madam, are that woman.

Miss Montague, in her last letter to me, in answer to one of mine,
inquiring if she knew from him whether he could call you his, or was
likely soon to have that honour, has these words: 'I know not what to
make of my cousin Lovelace, as to the point your Ladyship is so earnest
about.  He sometimes says he is actually married to Miss Cl. Harlowe: at
other times, that it is her own fault if he be not.--He speaks of her not
only with love but with reverence: yet owns, that there is a
misunderstanding between them; but confesses that she is wholly
faultless.  An angel, and not a woman, he says she is: and that no man
living can be worthy of her.'--

This is what my niece Montague writes.

God grant, my dearest young lady, that he may not have so heinously
offended you that you cannot forgive him!  If you are not already
married, and refuse to be his, I shall lose all hopes that he ever will
marry, or be the man I wish him to be.  So will Lord M.  So will Lady
Sarah Sadleir.

I will now answer your questions: but indeed I hardly know what to write,
for fear of widening still more the unhappy difference between you.  But
yet such a young lady must command every thing from me.  This then is my
answer:

I wrote not any letter to him on or about the 7th of June.

Neither I nor my steward know any such man as Captain Tomlinson.

I wrote not to my niece to meet me at Reading, nor to accompany me to my
      cousin Leeson's in town.

My chancery affair, though, like most chancery affairs, it be of long
      standing, is, nevertheless, now in so good a way, that it cannot
      give me occasion to go to town.

Nor have I been in town these six months: nor at Hampstead for
      years.

Neither shall I have any temptation to go to town, except to pay my
      congratulatory compliments to Mrs. Lovelace.  On which occasion I
      should go with the greatest pleasure; and should hope for the
      favour of your accompanying me to Glenham-hall, for a month at
      least.

Be what will the reason of your inquiry, let me entreat you, my dear
young lady, for Lord M.'s sake; for my sake; for this giddy man's sake,
soul as well as body; and for all our family's sakes; not to suffer this
answer to widen differences so far as to make you refuse him, if he
already has not the honour of calling you his; as I am apprehensive he
has not, by your signing by your family-name.

And here let me offer to you my mediation to compose the difference
between you, be it what it will.  Your cause, my dear young lady, cannot
be put into the hands of any body living more devoted to your service,
than into those of

Your sincere admirer, and humble servant,
ELIZ. LAWRANCE.



LETTER LIX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MRS. HODGES
ENFIELD, JUNE 22.


MRS. HODGES,

I am under a kind of necessity to write to you, having no one among my
relations to whom I dare write, or hope a line from if I did.  It is but
to answer a question.  It is this:

Whether you know any such man as Captain Tomlinson? and, if you do,
whether he be very intimate with my uncle Harlowe?

I will describe his person lest, possibly, he should go by another name
among you; although I know not why he should.

'He is a thin, tallish man, a little pock-fretten, of a sallowish
complexion.  Fifty years of age, or more.  Of good aspect when he looks
up.  He seems to be a serious man, and one who knows the world.  He
stoops a little in the shoulders.  Is of Berkshire.  His wife of
Oxfordshire; and has several children.  He removed lately into your parts
form Northamptonshire.'

I must desire you, Mrs. Hodges, that you will not let my uncle, nor any
of my relations, know that I write to you.

You used to say, that you would be glad to have it in your power to serve
me.  That, indeed, was in my prosperity.  But, I dare say, you will not
refuse me in a particular that will oblige me, without hurting yourself.

I understand that my father, mother, and sister, and I presume, my
brother, and my uncle Antony, are to be at my uncle Harlowe's this day.
God preserve them all, and may they rejoice in many happy birth-days!
You will write six words to me concerning their healths.

Direct, for a particular reason, to Mrs. Dorothy Salcombe, to be left
till called for, at the Four Swans Inn, Bishopsgate-street.

You know my hand-writing well enough, were not the contents of the letter
sufficient to excuse my name, or any other subscription, than that of

Your friend.



LETTER LX

MRS. HODGES
[IN ANSWER.]
SAT. JULY 2.


MADDAM,

I return you an anser, as you wish me to doe.  Master is acquented with
no sitch man.  I am shure no sitch ever came to our house.  And master
sturs very little out.  He has no harte to stur out.  For why?  Your
obstinacy makes um not care to see one another.  Master's birth-day never
was kept soe before: for not a sole heere: and nothing but sikeing and
sorrowin from master to think how it yused to bee.

I axed master, if soe bee he knowed sitch a man as one Captain Tomlinson?
but said not whirfor I axed.  He sed, No, not he.

Shure this is no trix nor forgery bruing against master by one Tomlinson
--Won knows not what company you may have been forsed to keep, sen you
went away, you knoe, Maddam; but Lundon is a pestilent plase; and that
'Squire Luvless is a devil (for all he is sitch a like gentleman to look
to) as I hev herd every boddy say; and think as how you have found by
thiss.

I truste, Maddam, you wulde not let master cum to harme, if you knoed it,
by any body who may pretend to be acquented with him: but for fere, I
querid with myself if I shulde not tell him.  But I was willin to show
you, that I wulde plessure you in advarsity, if advarsity be your lott,
as well as prosperity; for I am none of those that woulde doe otherwiss.
Soe no more from

Your humble sarvent, to wish you well,
SARAH HODGES.



LETTER LXI

MISS CL. HARLOWE, TO LADY BETTY LAWRANCE.
MONDAY, JULY 3.


MADAM,

I cannot excuse myself from giving your Ladyship this one trouble more;
to thank you, as I most heartily do, for your kind letter.

I must own to you, Madam, that the honour of being related to ladies as
eminent for their virtue as for their descent, was at first no small
inducement with me to lend an ear to Mr. Lovelace's address.  And the
rather, as I was determined, had it come to effect, to do every thing in
my power to deserve your favourable opinion.

I had another motive, which I knew would of itself give me merit with
your whole family; a presumptuous one, (a punishably presumptuous one, as
it has proved,) in the hope that I might be an humble mean in the hand of
Providence to reclaim a man, who had, as I thought, good sense enough to
acknowledge the intended obligation, whether the generous hope were to
succeed or not.

But I have been most egregiously mistaken in Mr. Lovelace; the only man,
I persuade myself, pretending to be a gentleman, in whom I could have
been so much mistaken: for while I was endeavouring to save a drowning
wretch, I have been, not accidentally, but premeditatedly, and of set
purpose, drawn in after him.  And he has had the glory to add to the list
of those he has ruined, a name, that, I will be bold to say, would not
have disparaged his own.  And this, Madam, by means that would shock
humanity to be made acquainted with.

My whole end is served by your Ladyship's answer to the questions I took
the liberty to put to you in writing.  Nor have I a wish to make the
unhappy man more odious to you than is necessary to excuse myself for
absolutely declining your offered mediation.

When your Ladyship shall be informed of the following particulars:

That after he had compulsorily, as I may say, tricked me into the act of
going off with him, he could carry me to one of the vilest houses, as it
proved, in London:

That he could be guilty of a wicked attempt, in resentment of which, I
found means to escape from him to Hampstead:

That, after he had found me out there (I know not how) he could procure
two women, dressed out richly, to personate your Ladyship and Miss
Montague; who, under pretence of engaging me to make a visit in town to
your cousin Leeson, (promising to return with me that evening to
Hampstead,) betrayed me back again to the vile house: where, again made a
prisoner, I was first robbed of my senses; and then of my honour.  Why
should I seek to conceal that disgrace from others which I cannot hide
from myself?

When your Ladyship shall know, that, in the shocking progress to this
ruin, wilful falsehoods, repeated forgeries, (particularly of one letter
from your Ladyship, another from Miss Montague, and a third from Lord M.)
and numberless perjuries, were not the least of his crimes: you will
judge, that I can have no principles that will make me worthy of an
alliance with ladies of your's and your noble sister's character, if I
could not from my soul declare, that such an alliance can never now take
place.

I will not offer to clear myself entirely of blame: but, as to him, I
have no fault to accuse myself of: my crime was, the corresponding with
him at first, when prohibited so to do by those who had a right to my
obedience; made still more inexcusable, by giving him a clandestine
meeting, which put me into the power of his arts.  And for this I am
content to be punished: thankful, that at last I have escaped from him;
and have it in my power to reject so wicked a man for my husband: and
glad, if I may be a warning, since I cannot be an example: which once
(very vain, and very conceited, as I was) I proposed to myself to be.

All the ill I wish him is, that he may reform; and that I may be the last
victim to his baseness.  Perhaps this desirable wish may be obtained,
when he shall see how his wickedness, his unmerited wickedness! to a poor
creature, made friendless by his cruel arts, will end.

I conclude with my humble thanks to your Ladyship for your favourable
opinion of me; and with the assurance that I will be, while life is lent
me,

Your Ladyship's grateful and obliged servant,
CLARISSA HARLOWE.



LETTER LXII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MRS. NORTON
SUNDAY EVENING, JULY 2.


How kindly, my beloved Mrs. Norton, do you soothe the anguish of a
bleeding heart!  Surely you are mine own mother; and, by some
unaccountable mistake, I must have been laid to a family that, having
newly found out, or at least suspected, the imposture, cast me from their
hearts, with the indignation that such a discovery will warrant.

Oh! that I had been indeed your own child, born to partake of your humble
fortunes, an heiress only to that content in which you are so happy! then
should I have had a truly gentle spirit to have guided my ductile heart,
which force and ungenerous usage sit so ill upon: and nothing of what has
happened would have been.

But let me take heed that I enlarge not, by impatience, the breach
already made in my duty by my rashness! since, had I not erred, my
mother, at least, could never have been thought hard-hearted and
unforgiving.  Am I not then answerable, not only for my own faults, but
for the consequences of them; which tend to depreciate and bring disgrace
upon a maternal character never before called in question?

It is kind, however, in you to endeavour to extenuate the faults of one
so greatly sensible of it: and could it be wiped off entirely, it would
render me more worthy of the pains you have taken in my education: for it
must add to your grief, as it does to my confusion, that, after such
promising beginnings, I should have so behaved as to be a disgrace
instead of a credit to you and my other friends.

But that I may not make you think me more guilty than I am, give me leave
briefly to assure you, that, when my story is known, I shall be
to more compassion than blame, even on the score of going away with Mr.
Lovelace.

As to all that happened afterwards, let me only say, that although I must
call myself a lost creature as to this world, yet have I this consolation
left me, that I have not suffered either for want of circumspection, or
through careful credulity or weakness.  Not one moment was I off my
guard, or unmindful of your early precepts.  But (having been enabled to
baffle many base contrivances) I was at last ruined by arts the most
inhuman.  But had I not been rejected by every friend, this low-hearted
man had not dared, nor would have had opportunity, to treat me as he has
treated me.

More I cannot, at this time, nor need I say: and this I desire you to
keep to yourself, lest resentments should be taken up when I am gone,
that may spread the evil which I hope will end with me.

I have been misinformed, you say, as to my principal relations being at
my uncle Harlowe's.  The day, you say, was not kept.  Nor have my brother
and Mr. Solmes--Astonishing!--What complicated wickedness has this
wretched man to answer for!--Were I to tell you, you would hardly believe
that there could have been such a heart in man.--

But one day you may know the whole story!--At present I have neither
inclination nor words--O my bursting heart!--Yet a happy, a wished
relief!--Were you present my tears would supply the rest!


***


I resume my pen!

And so you fear no letter will be received from me.  But DON'T grieve to
tell me so!  I expect every thing bad--and such is my distress, that had
you not bid me hope for mercy from the throne of mercy, I should have
been afraid that my father's dreadful curse would be completed with
regard to both worlds.

For here, an additional misfortune!--In a fit of phrensical heedlessness,
I sent a letter to my beloved Miss Howe, without recollecting her private
address; and it has fallen into her angry mother's hands: and so that
dear friend perhaps has anew incurred displeasure on my account.  And
here too your worthy son is ill; and my poor Hannah, you think, cannot
come to me--O my dear Mrs. Norton, will you, can you censure those whose
resentments against me Heaven seems to approve of? and will you acquit
her whom that condemns?

Yet you bid me not despond.--I will not, if I can help it.  And, indeed,
most seasonable consolation has your kind letter afforded me.--Yet to God
Almighty do I appeal, to avenge my wrongs, and vindicate my inno----

But hushed be my stormy passions!--Have I not but this moment said that
your letter gave me consolation?--May those be forgiven who hinder my
father from forgiving me!--and this, as to them, shall be the harshest
thing that shall drop from my pen.

But although your son should recover, I charge you, my dear Mrs. Norton,
that you do not think of coming to me.  I don't know still but your
mediation with my mother (although at present your interposition would be
so little attended to) may be of use to procure me the revocation of that
most dreadful part of my father's curse, which only remains to be
fulfilled.  The voice of Nature must at last be heard in my favour,
surely.  It will only plead at first to my friends in the still conscious
plaintiveness of a young and unhardened beggar.  But it will grow more
clamorous when I have the courage to be so, and shall demand, perhaps,
the paternal protection from farther ruin; and that forgiveness, which
those will be little entitled to expect, for their own faults, who shall
interpose to have it refused to me, for an accidental, not a premeditated
error: and which, but for them, I had never fallen into.

But again, impatiency, founded perhaps on self-partiality, that strange
misleader! prevails.

Let me briefly say, that it is necessary to my present and future hopes
that you keep well with my family.  And moreover, should you come, I may
be traced out by that means by the most abandoned of men.  Say not then
that you think you ought to come up to me, let it be taken as it will:--
For my sake, let me repeat, (were my foster-brother recovered, as I hope
he is,) you must not come.  Nor can I want your advice, while I can
write, and you can answer me.  And write I will as often as I stand in
need of your counsel.

Then the people I am now with seem to be both honest and humane: and
there is in the same house a widow-lodger, of low fortunes, but of great
merit:--almost such another serious and good woman as the dear one to
whom I am now writing; who has, as she says, given over all other
thoughts of the world but such as should assist her to leave it happily.
--How suitable to my own views!--There seems to be a comfortable
providence in this at least--so that at present there is nothing of
exigence; nothing that can require, or even excuse, your coming, when so
many better ends may be answered by your staying where you are.  A time
may come, when I shall want your last and best assistance: and then, my
dear Mrs. Norton--and then, I will speak it, and embrace it with all my
whole heart--and then, will it not be denied me by any body.

You are very obliging in your offer of money.  But although I was forced
to leave my clothes behind me, yet I took several things of value with
me, which will keep me from present want.  You'll say, I have made a
miserable hand of it--so indeed I have--and, to look backwards, in a very
little while too.

But what shall I do, if my father cannot be prevailed upon to recall his
malediction?  O my dear Mrs. Norton, what a weight must a father's curse
have upon a heart so appreciative as mine!--Did I think I should ever
have a father's curse to deprecate?  And yet, only that the temporary
part of it is so terribly fulfilled, or I should be as earnest for its
recall, for my father's sake, as for my own!

You must not be angry with me that I wrote not to you before.  You are
very right and very kind to say you are sure I love you.  Indeed I do.
And what a generosity, [so like yourself!] is there in your praise, to
attribute to me more than I merit, in order to raise an emulation to me
to deserve your praises!--you tell me what you expect from me in the
calamities I am called upon to bear.  May I behave answerably!

I can a little account to myself for my silence to you, my kind, my dear
maternal friend!  How equally sweetly and politely do you express
yourself on this occasion!  I was very desirous, for your sake, as well
as for my own, that you should have it to say that we did not correspond:
had they thought we did, every word you could have dropt in my favour
would have been rejected; and my mother would have been forbid to see
you, or pay any regard to what you should say.

Then I had sometimes better and sometimes worse prospects before me.  My
worst would only have troubled you to know: my better made me frequently
hope, that, by the next post, or the next, and so on for weeks, I should
have the best news to impart to you that then could happen: cold as the
wretch had made my heart to that best.--For how could I think to write to
you, with a confession that I was not married, yet lived in the house
(for I could not help it) with such a man?--Who likewise had given it out
to several, that we were actually married, although with restrictions
that depended on the reconciliation with my friends?  And to disguise the
truth, or be guilty of a falsehood, either direct or equivocal, that was
what you had never taught me.

But I might have written to you for advice, in my precarious situation,
perhaps you will think.  But, indeed, my dear Mrs. Norton, I was not lost
for want of advice.  And this will appear clear to you from what I have
already hinted, were I to explain myself no further:--For what need had
the cruel spoiler to have recourse to unprecedented arts--I will speak
out plainer still, (but you must not at present report it,) to stupifying
potions, and to the most brutal and outrageous force, had I been wanting
in my duty?

A few words more upon this grievous subject--

When I reflect upon all that has happened to me, it is apparent, that
this generally-supposed thoughtless seducer has acted by me upon a
regular and preconcerted plan of villany.

In order to set all his vile plots in motion, nothing was wanting, from
the first, but to prevail upon me, either by force or fraud, to throw
myself into his power: and when this was effected, nothing less than the
intervention of the paternal authority, (which I had not deserved to be
exerted in my behalf,) could have saved me from the effect of his deep
machinations.  Opposition from any other quarter would but too probably
have precipitated his barbarous and ungrateful violence: and had you
yourself been with me, I have reason now to think, that somehow or other
you would have suffered in endeavouring to save me: for never was there,
as now I see, a plan of wickedness more steadily and uniformly pursued
than his has been, against an unhappy creature who merited better of him:
but the Almighty has thought fit, according to the general course of His
providence, to make the fault bring on its own punishment: but surely not
in consequence of my father's dreadful imprecation, 'That I might be
punished here,' [O my mamma Norton, pray with me, if so, that here it
stop!] 'by the very wretch in whom I had placed my wicked confidence!'

I am sorry, for your sake, to leave off so heavily.  Yet the rest must be
brief.

Let me desire you to be secret in what I have communicated to you; at
least till you have my consent to divulge it.

God preserve to you your more faultless child!

I will hope for His mercy, although I should not obtain that of any
earthly person.

And I repeat my prohibition:--You must not think of coming up to

Your ever dutiful
CL. HARLOWE.

The obliging person, who left your's for me this day, promised to call
      to-morrow, to see if I should have any thing to return.  I would
      not lose so good an opportunity.



LETTER LXIII

MRS. NORTON, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE
MONDAY NIGHT, JULY 3.


O the barbarous villany of this detestable man!  And is there a man in
the world who could offer violence to so sweet a creature!

And are you sure you are now out of his reach?

You command me to keep secret the particulars of the vile treatment you
have met with; or else, upon an unexpected visit which Miss Harlowe
favoured me with, soon after I had received your melancholy letter, I
should have been tempted to own I had heard from you, and to have
communicated to her such parts of your two letters as would have
demonstrated your penitence, and your earnestness to obtain the
revocation of your father's malediction, as well as his protection from
outrages that may still be offered to you.  But then your sister would
probably have expected a sight of the letters, and even to have been
permitted to take them with her to the family.

Yet they must one day be acquainted with the sad story:--and it is
impossible but they must pity you, and forgive you, when they know your
early penitence, and your unprecedented sufferings; and that you have
fallen by the brutal force of a barbarous ravisher, and not by the vile
arts of a seducing lover.

The wicked man gives it out at Lord M.'s, as Miss Harlowe tells me, that
he is actually married to you--yet she believes it not: nor had I the
heart to let her know the truth.

She put it close to me, Whether I had not corresponded with you from the
time of your going away?  I could safely tell her, (as I did,) that I had
not: but I said, that I was well informed, that you took extremely to
heart your father's imprecation; and that, if she would excuse me, I
would say it would be a kind and sisterly part, if she would use her
interest to get you discharged from it.

Among other severe things, she told me, that my partial fondness for you
made me very little consider the honour of the rest of the family: but,
if I had not heard this from you, she supposed I was set on by Miss Howe.

She expressed herself with a good deal of bitterness against that young
lady: who, it seems, every where, and to every body, (for you must think
that your story is the subject of all conversations,) rails against your
family; treating them, as your sister says, with contempt, and even with
ridicule.

I am sorry such angry freedoms are taken, for two reasons; first, because
such liberties never do any good.  I have heard you own, that Miss Howe
has a satirical vein; but I should hope that a young lady of her sense,
and right cast of mind, must know that the end of satire is not to
exasperate, but amend; and should never be personal.  If it be, as my
good father used to say, it may make an impartial person suspect that the
satirist has a natural spleen to gratify; which may be as great a fault
in him, as any of those which he pretends to censure and expose in
others.

Perhaps a hint of this from you will not be thrown away.

My second reason is, That these freedoms, from so warm a friend to you as
Miss Howe is known to be, are most likely to be charged to your account.

My resentments are so strong against this vilest of men, that I dare not
touch upon the shocking particulars which you mention of his baseness.
What defence, indeed, could there be against so determined a wretch,
after you was in his power?  I will only repeat my earnest supplication
to you, that, black as appearances are, you will not despair.  Your
calamities are exceeding great; but then you have talents proportioned to
your trials.  This every body allows.

Suppose the worst, and that your family will not be moved in your favour,
your cousin Morden will soon arrive, as Miss Harlowe told me.  If he
should even be got over to their side, he will however see justice done
you; and then may you live an exemplary life, making hundreds happy, and
teaching young ladies to shun the snares in which you have been so
dreadfully entangled.

As to the man you have lost, is an union with such a perjured heart as
his, with such an admirable one as your's, to be wished for?  A base,
low-hearted wretch, as you justly call him, with all his pride of
ancestry; and more an enemy to himself with regard to his present and
future happiness than to you, in the barbarous and ungrateful wrongs he
has done you: I need not, I am sure, exhort you to despise such a man as
this, since not to be able to do so, would be a reflection upon a sex to
which you have always been an honour.

Your moral character is untainted: the very nature of your sufferings, as
you will observe, demonstrates that.  Cheer up, therefore, your dear
heart, and do not despair; for is it not GOD who governs the world, and
permits some things, and directs others, as He pleases? and will He not
reward temporary sufferings, innocently incurred, and piously supported,
with eternal felicity?--And what, my dear, is this poor needle's point of
NOW to a boundless eternity?

My heart, however, labours under a double affliction: For my poor boy is
very, very bad--a violent fever--nor can it be brought to intermit.--Pray
for him, my dearest Miss--for his recovery, if God see fit.--I hope God
will see fit--if not (how can I bear to suppose that!)  Pray for me, that
he will give me that patience and resignation which I have been wishing
to you.  I am, my dearest young lady,

Your ever affectionate
JUDITH NORTON.



LETTER LXIV

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MRS. JUDITH NORTON
THURSDAY, JULY 6.


I ought not, especially at this time, to add to your afflictions--but yet
I cannot help communicating to you (who now are my only soothing friend)
a new trouble that has befallen me.

I had but one friend in the world, beside you; and she is utterly
displeased with me.*  It is grievous, but for one moment, to lie under a
beloved person's censure; and this through imputations that affect one's
honour and prudence.  There are points so delicate, you know, my dear
Mrs. Norton, that it is a degree of dishonour to have a vindication of
one's self from them appear to be necessary.  In the present case, my
misfortune is, that I know not how to account, but by guess (so subtle
have been the workings of the dark spirit I have been unhappily entangled
by) for some of the facts that I am called upon to explain.

Miss Howe, in short, supposes she has found a flaw in my character.  I
have just now received her severe letter--but I shall answer it, perhaps,
in better temper, if I first consider your's: for indeed my patience is
almost at an end.  And yet I ought to consider, that faithful are the
wounds of a friend.  But so many things at once!  O my dear Mrs. Norton,
how shall so young a scholar in the school of affliction be able to bear
such heavy and such various evils!

But to leave this subject for a while, and turn to your letter.

I am very sorry Miss Howe is so lively in her resentments on my account.
I have always blamed her very freely for her liberties of this sort with
my friends.  I once had a good deal of influence over her kind heart, and
she made all I said a law to her.  But people in calamity have little
weight in any thing, or with any body.  Prosperity and independence are
charming things on this account, that they give force to the counsels of
a friendly heart; while it is thought insolence in the miserable to
advise, or so much as to remonstrate.

Yet is Miss Howe an invaluable person: And is it to be expected that she
should preserve the same regard for my judgment that she had before I
forfeited all title to discretion?  With what face can I take upon me to
reproach a want of prudence in her?  But if I can be so happy as to
re-establish myself in her ever-valued opinion, I shall endeavour to
enforce upon her your just observation on this head.

You need not, you say, exhort me to despise such a man as him, by whom I
have suffered--indeed you need not: for I would choose the cruellest
death rather than to be his.  And yet, my dear Mrs. Norton, I will own to
you, that once I could have loved him.--Ungrateful man!--had he permitted
me to love him, I once could have loved him.  Yet he never deserved
love.  And was not this a fault?--But now, if I can but keep out of his
hands, and obtain a last forgiveness, and that as well for the sake of my
dear friends' future reflections, as for my own present comfort, it is
all I wish for.

Reconciliation with my friends I do not expect; nor pardon from them; at
least, till in extremity, and as a viaticum.

O my beloved Mrs. Norton, you cannot imagine what I have suffered!--But
indeed my heart is broken!--I am sure I shall not live to take possession
of that independence, which you think would enable me to atone, in some
measure, for my past conduct.

While this is my opinion, you may believe I shall not be easy till I can
obtain a last forgiveness.

I wish to be left to take my own course in endeavouring to procure this
grace.  Yet know I not, at present, what that course shall be.

I will write.  But to whom is my doubt.  Calamity has not yet given me
the assurance to address myself to my FATHER.  My UNCLES (well as they
once loved me) are hard hearted.  They never had their masculine passions
humanized by the tender name of FATHER.  Of my BROTHER I have no hope.  I
have then but my MOTHER, and my SISTER, to whom I can apply.--'And may I
not, my dearest Mamma, be permitted to lift up my trembling eye to your
all-cheering, and your once more than indulgent, your fond eye, in hopes
of seasonable mercy to the poor sick heart that yet beats with life drawn
from your own dearer heart?--Especially when pardon only, and not
restoration, is implored?'

Yet were I able to engage my mother's pity, would it not be a mean to
make her still more unhappy than I have already made her, by the
opposition she would meet with, were she to try to give force to that
pity?

To my SISTER, then, I think, I will apply--Yet how hard-hearted has my
sister been!--But I will not ask for protection; and yet I am in hourly
dread that I shall want protection.--All I will ask for at present
(preparative to the last forgiveness I will implore) shall be only to be
freed from the heavy curse that seems to have operated as far is it can
operate as to this life--and, surely, it was passion, and not intention,
that carried it so far as to the other!

But why do I thus add to your distresses?--It is not, my dear Mrs.
Norton, that I have so much feeling for my own calamity that I have none
for your's: since your's is indeed an addition to my own.  But you have
one consolation (a very great one) which I have not:--That your
afflictions, whether respecting your more or your less deserving child,
rise not from any fault of your own.

But what can I do for you more than pray?--Assure yourself, that in every
supplication I put up for myself, I will with equal fervour remember both
you and your son.  For I am and ever will be

Your truly sympathising and dutiful
CLARISSA HARLOWE.



LETTER LXV

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE
[SUPERSCRIBED FOR MRS. RACHEL CLARK, &c.]
WEDNESDAY, JULY 5.


MY DEAR CLARISSA,

I have at last heard from you from a quarter I little expected.

From my mother!

She had for some time seen me uneasy and grieving; and justly supposed it
was about you: and this morning dropt a hint, which made me conjecture
that she must have heard something of you more than I knew.  And when she
found that this added to my uneasiness, she owned she had a letter in her
hands of your's, dated the 29th of June, directed for me.

You may guess, that this occasioned a little warmth, that could not be
wished for by either.

[It is surprising, my dear, mighty surprising! that knowing the
prohibition I lay under of corresponding with you, you could send a
letter for me to our own house: since it must be fifty to one that it
would fall into my mother's hands, as you find it did.]

In short, she resented that I should disobey her: I was as much concerned
that she should open and withhold from me my letters: and at last she was
pleased to compromise the matter with me by giving up the letter, and
permitting me to write to you once or twice: she to see the contents of
what I wrote.  For, besides the value she has for you, she could not but
have greater curiosity to know the occasion of so sad a situation as your
melancholy letter shows you to be in.

[But I shall get her to be satisfied with hearing me read what I write;
putting in between hooks, thus [], what I intend not to read to her.]

Need I to remind you, Miss Clarissa Harlowe, of three letters I wrote to
you, to none of which I had any answer; except to the first, and that of
a few lines only, promising a letter at large, though you were well
enough, the day after you received my second, to go joyfully back again
with him to the vile house?  But more of these by-and-by.  I must hasten
to take notice of your letter of Wednesday last week; which you could
contrive should fall into my mother's hands.

Let me tell you, that that letter has almost broken my heart.  Good God!
--What have you brought yourself to, Miss Clarissa Harlowe?--Could I have
believed, that after you had escaped from the miscreant, (with such
mighty pains and earnestness escaped,) and after such an attempt as he
had made, you would have been prevailed upon not only to forgive him, but
(without being married too) to return with him to that horrid house!--A
house I had given you such an account of!--Surprising!----What an
intoxicating thing is this love?--I always feared, that you, even you,
were not proof against its inconsistent effects.

You your best self have not escaped!--Indeed I see not how you could
expect to escape.

What a tale have you to unfold!--You need not unfold it, my dear: I would
have engaged to prognosticate all that has happened, had you but told me
that you would once more have put yourself in his power, after you had
taken such pains to get out of it.

Your peace is destroyed!--I wonder not at it: since now you must reproach
yourself for a credulity so ill-placed.

Your intellect is touched!--I am sure my heart bleeds for you!  But,
excuse me, my dear, I doubt your intellect was touched before you left
Hampstead: or you would never have let him find you out there; or, when
he did, suffer him to prevail upon you to return to the horrid brothel.

I tell you, I sent you three letters: The first of which, dated the 7th
and 8th of June* (for it was written at twice) came safely to your hands,
as you sent me word by a few lines dated the 9th: had it not, I should
have doubted my own safety; since in it I give you such an account of the
abominable house, and threw such cautions in your way, in relation to
that Tomlinson, as the more surprised me that you could think of going
back to it again, after you had escaped from it, and from Lovelace.--O
my dear--but nothing now will I ever wonder at!


* See Vol. V. Letter XX.


The second, dated June 10,* was given into your own hand at Hampstead, on
Sunday the 11th, as you was lying upon a couch, in a strange way,
according to my messenger's account of you, bloated, and flush-coloured;
I don't know how.


* See Letter VII. of this volume.


The third was dated the 20th of June.*  Having not heard one word from
you since the promising billet of the 9th, I own I did not spare you in
it.  I ventured it by the usual conveyance, by that Wilson's, having no
other: so cannot be sure you received it.  Indeed I rather think you
might not; because in your's, which fell into my mother's hands, you make
no mention of it: and if you had had it, I believe it would have touched
you too much to have been passed by unnoticed.


* See Letter XXX. of this volume.


You have heard, that I have been ill, you say.  I had a cold, indeed; but
it was so slight a one that it confined me not an hour.  But I doubt not
that strange things you have heard, and been told, to induce you to take
the step you took.  And, till you did take that step (the going back with
this villain, I mean,) I knew not a more pitiable case than your's: since
every body must have excused you before, who knew how you were used at
home, and was acquainted with your prudence and vigilance.  But, alas! my
dear, we see that the wisest people are not to be depended upon, when
love, like an ignis fatuus, holds up its misleading lights before their
eyes.

My mother tells me, she sent you an answer, desiring you not to write to
me, because it would grieve me.  To be sure I am grieved; exceedingly
grieved; and, disappointed too, you must permit me to say.  For I had
always thought that there never was such a woman, at your years, in the
world.

But I remember once an argument you held, on occasion of a censure passed
in company upon an excellent preacher, who was not a very excellent
liver: preaching and practising, you said, required very different
talents:* which, when united in the same person, made the man a saint; as
wit and judgment, going together, constituted a genius.


* See Vol. II. Letter IV.


You made it out, I remember, very prettily: but you never made it out,
excuse me, my dear, more convincingly, than by that part of your late
conduct, which I complain of.

My love for you, and my concern for your honour, may possibly have made
me a little of the severest.  If you think so, place it to its proper
account; to that love, and to that concern: which will but do justice
to

Your afflicted and faithful
A.H.

P.S.  My mother would not be satisfied without reading my letter herself;
      and that before I had fixed all the proposed hooks.  She knows, by
      this means, and has excused, our former correspondence.

She indeed suspected it before: and so she very well might; knowing my
      love of you.

She has so much real concern for your misfortunes, that, thinking it will
      be a consolation to you, and that it will oblige me, she consents
      that you shall write to me the particulars at large of your say
      story.  But it is on condition that I show her all that has passed
      between us, relating to yourself and the vilest of men.  I have the
      more cheerfully complied, as the communication cannot be to your
      disadvantage.

You may therefore write freely, and direct to our own house.

My mother promises to show me the copy of her letter to you, and your
      reply to it; which latter she has but just told me of.  She already
      apologizes for the severity of her's: and thinks the sight of your
      reply will affect me too much.  But, having her promise, I will not
      dispense with it.

I doubt her's is severe enough.  So I fear you will think mine: but you
      have taught me never to spare the fault for the friend's sake; and
      that a great error ought rather to be the more inexcusable in the
      person we value, than in one we are indifferent to; because it is a
      reflection upon our choice of that person, and tends to a breach of
      the love of mind, and to expose us to the world for our partiality.
      To the love of mind, I repeat; since it is impossible but the
      errors of the dearest friend must weaken our inward opinion of that
      friend; and thereby lay a foundation for future distance, and
      perhaps disgust.

God grant that you may be able to clear your conduct after you had
      escaped from Hampstead; as all before that time was noble,
      generous, and prudent; the man a devil and you a saint!----Yet I
      hope you can; and therefore expect it from you.

I send by a particular hand.  He will call for your answer at your own
      appointment.

I am afraid this horrid wretch will trace out by the post-offices where
      you are, if not careful.

To have money, and will, and head, to be a villain, is too much for the
      rest of the world, when they meet in one man.



LETTER LXVI

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE
THURSDAY, JULY 6.


Few young persons have been able to give more convincing proofs than
myself how little true happiness lies in the enjoyment of our own wishes.

To produce one instance only of the truth of this observation; what would
I have given for weeks past, for the favour of a letter from my dear Miss
Howe, in whose friendship I placed all my remaining comfort!  Little did
I think, that the next letter she would honour me with, should be in such
a style, as should make me look more than once at the subscription, that
I might be sure (the name not being written at length) that it was not
signed by another A.H.  For surely, thought I, this is my sister
Arabella's style: surely Miss Howe (blame me as she pleases in other
points) could never repeat so sharply upon her friend, words written in
the bitterness of spirit, and in the disorder of head; nor remind her,
with asperity, and with mingled strokes of wit, of an argument held in
the gaiety of a heart elated with prosperous fortunes, (as mine then
was,) and very little apprehensive of the severe turn that argument would
one day take against herself.

But what have I, sink in my fortunes; my character forfeited; my honour
lost, [while I know it, I care not who knows it;] destitute of friends,
and even of hope; what have I to do to show a spirit of repining and
expostulation to a dear friend, because she is not more kind than a
sister?----

You have till now, my dear, treated me with great indulgence.  If it was
with greater than I had deserved, I may be to blame to have built upon
it, on the consciousness that I deserve it now as much as ever.  But I
find, by the rising bitterness which will mingle with the gall in my ink,
that I am not yet subdued enough to my condition.--I lay down my pen for
one moment.


***


Pardon me, my Miss Howe.  I have recollected myself: and will endeavour
to give a particular answer to your letter; although it will take me up
too much time to think of sending it by your messenger to-morrow: he can
put off his journey, he says, till Saturday.  I will endeavour to have
the whole narrative ready for you by Saturday.

But how to defend myself in every thing that has happened, I cannot tell:
since in some part of the time, in which my conduct appears to have been
censurable, I was not myself; and to this hour know not all the methods
taken to deceive and ruin me.

You tell me, that in your first letter you gave me such an account of the
vile house I was in, and such cautions about that Tomlinson, as made you
wonder how I could think of going back.

Alas, my dear!  I was tricked, most vilely tricked back, as you shall
hear in its place.

Without knowing the house was so very vile a house from your intended
information, I disliked the people too much, ever voluntarily to have
returned to it.  But had you really written such cautions about
Tomlinson, and the house, as you seem to have purposed to do, they must,
had they come in time, have been of infinite service to me.  But not one
word of either, whatever was your intention, did you mention to me, in
that first of the three letters you so warmly TELL me you did send me.  I
will enclose it to convince you.*


* The letter she encloses was Mr. Lovelace's forged one.  See Vol. V.
Letter XXX.


But your account of your messenger's delivering to me your second
letter, and the description he gives of me, as lying upon a couch, in a
strange way, bloated, and flush-coloured; you don't know how, absolutely
puzzles and confounds me.

Lord have mercy upon the poor Clarissa Harlowe!  What can this mean!--Who
was the messenger you sent?  Was he one of Lovelace's creatures too!--
Could nobody come near me but that man's confederates, either setting out
so, or made so?  I know not what to make of any one syllable of this!
Indeed I don't.

Let me see.  You say, this was before I went from Hampstead!  My
intellects had not then been touched!--nor had I ever been surprised by
wine, [strange if I had!]: How then could I be found in such a strange
way, bloated and flush-coloured; you don't know how!--Yet what a vile,
what a hateful figure has your messenger represented me to have made!

But indeed I know nothing of any messenger from you.

Believing myself secure at Hampstead, I staid longer there than I would
have done, in hopes of the letter promised me in your short one of the
9th, brought me by my own messenger, in which you undertake to send for
and engage Mrs. Townsend in my favour.*


* See Vol. V. Letter XXIX.


I wondered I had not heard from you: and was told you were sick; and, at
another time, that your mother and you had had words on my account, and
that you had refused to admit Mr. Hickman's visits upon it: so that I
supposed, at one time, that you were not able to write; at another, that
your mother's prohibition had its due force with you.  But now I have no
doubt that the wicked man must have intercepted your letter; and I wish
he found not means to corrupt your messenger to tell you so strange a
story.

It was on Sunday, June 11, you say, that the man gave it me.  I was at
church twice that day with Mrs. Moore.  Mr. Lovelace was at her house the
while, where he boarded, and wanted to have lodged; but I would not
permit that, though I could not help the other.  In one of these spaces
it must be that he had time to work upon the man.  You'll easily, my
dear, find that out, by inquiring the time of his arrival at Mrs. Moore's
and other circumstances of the strange way he pretended to see me in, on
a couch, and the rest.

Had any body seen me afterwards, when I was betrayed back to the vile
house, struggling under the operation of wicked potions, and robbed
indeed of my intellects (for this, as you shall hear, was my dreadful
case,) I might then, perhaps, have appeared bloated and flush-coloured,
and I know not how myself.  But were you to see your poor Clarissa, now
(or even to have seen her at Hampstead before she suffered the vilest of
all outrages,) you would not think her bloated or flush-coloured: indeed
you would not.

In a word, it could not be me your messenger saw; nor (if any body) who
it was can I divine.

I will now, as briefly as the subject will permit, enter into the darker
part of my sad story: and yet I must be somewhat circumstantial, that you
may not think me capable of reserve or palliation.  The latter I am not
conscious that I need.  I should be utterly inexcusable were I guilty of
the former to you.  And yet, if you know how my heart sinks under the
thoughts of a recollection so painful, you would pity me.

As I shall not be able, perhaps, to conclude what I have to write in even
two or three letters, I will begin a new one with my story; and send the
whole of it together, although written at different periods, as I am
able.

Allow me a little pause, my dear, at this place; and to subscribe myself

Your ever affectionate and obliged,
CLARISSA HARLOWE.



LETTER LXVII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE
[REFERRED TO IN LETTER XII.]
THURSDAY NIGHT.


He had found me out at Hampstead: strangely found me out; for I am still
at a loss to know by what means.

I was loth, in my billet of the 6th,* to tell you so, for fear of giving
you apprehensions for me; and besides, I hoped then to have a shorter and
happier issue to account to you for, through your assistance, than I met
with.


* See Vol. V. Letter XXXI.


[She then gives a narrative of all that passed at Hampstead between
      herself, Mr. Lovelace, Capt. Tomlinson, and the women there, to the
      same effect with that so amply given by Mr. Lovelace.]

Mr. Lovelace, finding all he could say, and all Captain Tomlinson could
urge, ineffectual, to prevail upon me to forgive an outrage so flagrantly
premeditated; rested all his hopes on a visit which was to be paid me by
Lady Betty Lawrance and Miss Montague.

In my uncertain situation, my prospects all so dark, I knew not to whom I
might be obliged to have recourse in the last resort: and as those ladies
had the best of characters, insomuch that I had reason to regret that I
had not from the first thrown myself upon their protection, (when I had
forfeited that of my own friends,) I thought I would not shun an
interview with them, though I was too indifferent to their kinsman to
seek it, as I doubted not that one end of their visit would be to
reconcile me to him.

On Monday, the 12th of June, these pretended ladies came to Hampstead;
and I was presented to them, and they to me by their kinsman.

They were richly dressed, and stuck out with jewels; the pretended Lady
Betty's were particularly very fine.

They came in a coach-and-four, hired, as was confessed, while their own
was repairing in town: a pretence made, I now perceive, that I should not
guess at the imposture by the want of the real lady's arms upon it.  Lady
Betty was attended by her woman, who she called Morrison; a modest
country-looking person.

I had heard, that Lady Betty was a fine woman, and that Miss Montague was
a beautiful young lady, genteel, and graceful, and full of vivacity.--
Such were these impostors: and having never seen either of them, I had
not the least suspicion, that they were not the ladies they personated;
and being put a little out of countenance by the richness of their
dresses, I could not help, (fool that I was!) to apologize for my own.

The pretended Lady Betty then told me, that her nephew had acquainted
them with the situation of affairs between us.  And although she could
not but say, that she was very glad that she had not put such a slight
upon his Lordship and them, as report had given them cause to apprehend,
(the reasons for which report, however, she must have approved of;) yet
it had been matter of great concern to her, and to her niece Montague,
and would to the whole family, to find so great a misunderstanding
subsisting between us, as, if not made up, might distance all their
hopes.

She could easily tell who was in fault, she said.  And gave him a look
both of anger and disdain; asking him, How it was possible for him to
give an offence of such a nature to so charming a lady, [so she called
me,] as should occasion a resentment so strong?

He pretended to be awed into shame and silence.

My dearest niece, said she, and took my hand, (I must call you niece, as
well from love, as to humour your uncle's laudable expedient,) permit me
to be, not an advocate, but a mediatrix for him; and not for his sake, so
much as for my own, my Charlotte's, and all our family's.  The indignity
he has offered to you, may be of too tender a nature to be inquired into.
But as he declares, that it was not a premeditated offence; whether, my
dear, [for I was going to rise upon it in my temper,] it were or not; and
as he declares his sorrows for it, (and never did creature express a
deeper sorrow for any offence than he); and as it is a repairable one; let
us, for this one time, forgive him; and thereby lay an obligation upon
this man of errors--Let US, I say, my dear: for, Sir, [turning to him,]
an offence against such a peerless lady as this, must be an offence
against me, against your cousin here, and against all the virtuous of our
sex.

See, my dear, what a creature he had picked out!  Could you have thought
there was a woman in the world who could thus express herself, and yet be
vile?  But she had her principal instructions from him, and those written
down too, as I have reason to think: for I have recollected since, that I
once saw this Lady Betty, (who often rose from her seat, and took a turn
to the other end of the room with such an emotion, as if the joy of her
heart would not let her sit still) take out a paper from her stays, and
look into it, and put it there again.  She might oftener, and I not
observe it; for I little thought that there could be such impostors in
the world.

I could not forbear paying great attention to what she said.  I found my
tears ready to start; I drew out my handkerchief, and was silent.  I had
not been so indulgently treated a great while by a person of character
and distinction, [such I thought her;] and durst not trust to the accent
of my voice.

The pretended Miss Montague joined in on this occasion: and drawing her
chair close to me, took my other hand, and besought me to forgive her
cousin; and consent to rank myself as one of the principals of a family
that had long, very long, coveted the honour of my alliance.

I am ashamed to repeat to you, my dear, now I know what wretches they
are, the tender, the obliging, and the respectful things I said to them.

The wretch himself then came forward.  He threw himself at my feet.  How
was I beset!--The women grasping, one my right hand, the other my left:
the pretended Miss Montague pressing to her lips more than once the hand
she held: the wicked man on his knees, imploring my forgiveness; and
setting before me my happy and my unhappy prospects, as I should forgive
and not forgive him.  All that he thought would affect me in former
pleas, and those of Capt. Tomlinson, he repeated.  He vowed, he promised,
he bespoke the pretended ladies to answer for him; and they engaged their
honours in his behalf.

Indeed, my dear, I was distressed, perfectly distressed.  I was sorry
that I had given way to this visit.  For I knew not how, in tenderness to
relations, (as I thought them,) so worthy, to treat so freely as he
deserved, a man nearly allied to them: so that my arguments and my
resolutions were deprived of their greatest force.

I pleaded, however, my application to you.  I expected every hour, I told
them, an answer from you to a letter I had written, which would decide my
future destiny.

They offered to apply to you themselves in person, in their own behalf,
as they politely termed it.  They besought me to write to you to hasten
your answer.

I said, I was sure that you would write the moment that the event of an
application to be made to a third person enabled you to write.  But as to
the success of their request in behalf of their kinsman, that depended
not upon the expected answer; for that, I begged their pardon, was out of
the question.  I wished him well.  I wished him happy.  But I was
convinced, that I neither could make him so, nor he me.

Then! how the wretch promised!--How he vowed!--How he entreated!--And how
the women pleaded!--And they engaged themselves, and the honour of their
whole family, for his just, his kind, his tender behaviour to me.

In short, my dear, I was so hard set, that I was obliged to come to a
more favourable compromise with them than I had intended.  I would wait
for your answer to my letter, I said: and if that made doubtful or
difficult the change of measures I had resolved upon, and the scheme of
life I had formed, I would then consider of the matter; and, if they
would permit me, lay all before them, and take their advice upon it, in
conjunction with your's, as if the one were my own aunt, and the other
were my own cousin.

They shed tears upon this--of joy they called them:--But since, I
believe, to their credit, bad as they are, that they were tears of
temporary remorse; for, the pretended Miss Montague turned about, and, as
I remember, said, There was no standing it.

But Mr. Lovelace was not so easily satisfied.  He was fixed upon his
villanous measures perhaps; and so might not be sorry to have a pretence
against me.  He bit his lip--he had been but too much used, he said, to
such indifference, such coldness, in the very midst of his happiest
prospects.  I had on twenty occasions shown him, to his infinite regret,
that any favour I was to confer upon him was to be the result of--there
he stopt--and not of my choice.

This had like to have set all back again.  I was exceedingly offended.
But the pretended ladies interposed.  The elder severely took him to
task. He ought, she told him, to be satisfied with what I had said.  She
desired no other condition.  And what, Sir, said she, with an air of
authority, would you commit errors, and expect to be rewarded for them?

They then engaged me in a more agreeable conversation--the pretended lady
declared, that she, Lord M. and Lady Sarah, would directly and personally
interest themselves to bring about a general reconciliation between the
two families, and this either in open or private concert with my uncle
Harlowe, as should be thought fit.  Animosities on one side had been
carried a great way, she said; and too little care had been shown on the
other to mollify or heal.  My father should see that they could treat him
as a brother and a friend; and my brother and sister should be convinced
that there was no room either for the jealously [sic] or envy they had
conceived from motives too unworthy to be avowed.

Could I help, my dear, being pleased with them?--

Permit me here to break off.  The task grows too heavy, at present, for
the heart of

Your
CLARISSA HARLOWE.



LETTER LXVIII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE
[IN CONTINUATION.]


I was very ill, and obliged to lay down my pen.  I thought I should have
fainted.  But am better now--so will proceed.

The pretended ladies, the more we talked, the fonder they seemed to be of
me.  And the Lady Betty had Mrs. Moore called up; and asked her, If she
had accommodations for her niece and self, her woman, and two men
servants, for three or four days?

Mr. Lovelace answered for her that she had.

She would not ask her dear niece Lovelace, [Permit me, my dear, whispered
she, this charming style before strangers!  I will keep your uncle's
secret,] whether she should be welcome or not to be so near her.  But for
the time she should stay in these parts, she would come up every night--
What say you, niece Charlotte?

The pretended Charlotte answered, she should like to do so, of all
things.

The Lady Betty called her an obliging girl.  She liked the place, she
said.  Her cousin Leeson would excuse her.  The air, and my company,
would do her good.  She never chose to lie in the smoky town, if she
could help it.  In short, my dear, said she to me, I will stay with you
till you hear from Miss Howe; and till I have your consent to go with me
to Glenham-hall.  Not one moment will I be out of your company, when I
can have it.  Stedman, my solicitor, as the distance from town is so
small, may attend me here for instructions.  Niece Charlotte, one word
with you, child.

They retired to the further end of the room, and talked about their
night-dresses.

The Miss Charlotte said, Morrison might be dispatched for them.

True, said the other--but I have some letters in my private box, which
I must have up.  And you know, Charlotte, that I trust nobody with the
keys of that.

Could not Morrison bring up the box?

No.  She thought it safest where it was.  She had heard of a robbery
committed but two days ago at the food of Hampstead-hill; and she should
be ruined in she lost her box.

Well, then, it was but going to town to undress, and she would leave her
jewels behind her, and return; and should be easier a great deal on all
accounts.

For my part, I wondered they came up with them.  But that was to be taken
as a respect paid to me.  And then they hinted at another visit of
ceremony which they had thought to make, had they not found me so
inexpressibly engaging.

They talked loud enough for me to hear them; on purpose, no doubt, though
in affected whispers; and concluded with high praises of me.

I was not fool enough to believe, or to be puffed up with their
encomiums; yet not suspecting them, I was not displeased at so favourable
a beginning of acquaintance with Ladies (whether I were to be related to
them or not) of whom I had always heard honourable mention.  And yet at
the time, I thought, highly as they exalted me, that in some respects
(though I hardly know in what) they fell short of what I expected them to
be.

The grand deluder was at the farther end of the room, another way;
probably to give me an opportunity to hear these preconcerted praises--
looking into a book, which had there not been a preconcert, would not
have taken his attention for one moment.  It was Taylor's Holy Living and
Dying.

When the pretended ladies joined me, he approached me with it in his hand
--a smart book, this, my dear!--this old divine affects, I see, a mighty
flowery style of an ordinary country funeral, where, the young women, in
honour of a defunct companion, especially if she were a virgin, or passed
for such, make a flower-bed of her coffin.

And then, laying down the book, turning upon his heel, with one of his
usual airs of gaiety, And are you determined, Ladies, to take up your
lodgings with my charming creature?

Indeed they were.

Never were there more cunning, more artful impostors, than these women.
Practised creatures, to be sure: yet genteel; and they must have been
well-educated--once, perhaps, as much the delight of their parents, as I
was of mine: and who knows by what arts ruined, body and mind--O my dear!
how pregnant is this reflection!

But the man!--Never was there a man so deep.  Never so consummate a
deceiver; except that detested Tomlinson; whose years and seriousness,
joined with a solidity of sense and judgment that seemed uncommon, gave
him, one would have thought, advantages in villany, the other had not
time for.  Hard, very hard, that I should fall into the knowledge of two
such wretches; when two more such I hope are not to be met with in the
world!--both so determined to carry on the most barbarous and perfidious
projects against a poor young creature, who never did or wished harm to
either.

Take the following slight account of these women's and of this man's
behaviour to each other before me.

Mr. Lovelace carried himself to his pretended aunt with high respect,
and paid a great deference to all she said.  He permitted her to have all
the advantage over him in the repartees and retorts that passed between
them.  I could, indeed, easily see, that it was permitted; and that he
forbore that vivacity, that quickness, which he never spared showing to
his pretended Miss Montague; and which a man of wit seldom knows how to
spare showing, when an opportunity offers to display his wit.

The pretended Miss Montague was still more respectful in her behaviour to
her pretended aunt.  While the aunt kept up the dignity of the character
she had assumed, rallying both of them with the air of a person who
depends upon the superiority which years and fortune give over younger
persons, who might have a view to be obliged to her, either in her life,
or at her death.

The severity of her raillery, however, was turned upon Mr. Lovelace, on
occasion of the character of the people who kept the lodgings, which, she
said, I had thought myself so well warranted to leave privately.

This startled me.  For having then no suspicion of the vile Tomlinson, I
concluded (and your letter of the 7th* favoured my conclusion) that if
the house were notorious, either he, or Mr. Mennell, would have given me
or him some hints of it--nor, although I liked not the people, did I
observe any thing in them very culpable, till the Wednesday night before,
that they offered not to come to my assistance, although within hearing
of my distress, (as I am sure they were,) and having as much reason as I
to be frighted at the fire, had it been real.


* His forged letter.  See Vol. V. Letter XXX.


I looked with indignation upon Mr. Lovelace, at this hint.

He seemed abashed.  I have not patience, but to recollect the specious
looks of this vile deceiver.  But how was it possible, that even that
florid countenance of his should enable him to command a blush at his
pleasure? for blush he did, more than once: and the blush, on this
occasion, was a deep-dyed crimson, unstrained for, and natural, as I
thought--but he is so much of the actor, that he seems able to enter into
any character; and his muscles and features appear entirely under
obedience to his wicked will.*


* It is proper to observe, that there was a more natural reason than this
that the Lady gives for Mr. Lovelace's blushing.  It was a blush of
indignation, as he owned afterwards to his friend Belford, in
conversation; for the pretended Lady Betty had mistaken her cue, in
condemning the house; and he had much ado to recover the blunder; being
obliged to follow her lead, and vary from his first design; which was to
have the people of the house spoken well of, in order to induce her to
return to it, were it but on pretence to direct her clothes to be carried
to Hampstead.


The pretended lady went on, saying, she had taken upon herself to inquire
after the people, on hearing that I had left the house in disgust; and
though she heard not any thing much amiss, yet she heard enough to make
her wonder that he could carry his spouse, a person of so much delicacy,
to a house, that, if it had not a bad fame, had not a good one.

You must think, my dear, that I liked the pretended Lady Betty the better
for this.  I suppose it was designed that I should.

He was surprised, he said, that her Ladyship should hear a bad character
of the people.  It was what he had never before heard that they deserved.
It was easy, indeed, to see, that they had not very great delicacy,
though they were not indelicate.  The nature of their livelihood, letting
lodgings, and taking people to board, (and yet he had understood that
they were nice in these particulars,) led them to aim at being free and
obliging: and it was difficult, he said, for persons of cheerful
dispositions, so to behave as to avoid censure: openness of heart and
countenance in the sex (more was the pity) too often subjected good
people, whose fortunes did not set them above the world, to uncharitable
censure.

He wished, however, that her Ladyship would tell what she had heard:
although now it signified but little, because he would never ask me to
set foot within their doors again: and he begged she would not mince the
matter.

Nay, no great matter, she said.  But she had been informed, that there
were more women-lodgers in the house than men: yet that their visiters
were more men than women.  And this had been hinted to her (perhaps by
ill-wishers, she could not answer for that) in such a way, as if somewhat
further were meant by it than was spoken.

This, he said, was the true innuendo-way of characterizing, used by
detractors.  Every body and every thing had a black and a white side, of
which well wishers and ill wishers may make their advantage.  He had
observed that the front house was well let, and he believed more to the
one sex than to the other; for he had seen, occasionally passing to or
fro, several genteel modest looking women; and who, it was very probable,
were not so ill-beloved, but they might have visiters and relations of
both sexes: but they were none of them any thing to us, or we to them: we
were not once in any of their companies: but in the genteelest and most
retired house of the two, which we had in a manner to ourselves, with the
use of a parlour to the street, to serve us for a servants' hall, or to
receive common visiters, or our traders only, whom we admitted not up
stairs.

He always loved to speak as he found.  No man in the world had suffered
more from calumny than he himself had done.

Women, he owned, ought to be more scrupulous than men needed to be where
they lodged.  Nevertheless he wished that fact, rather than surmise, were
to be the foundation of their judgments, especially when they spoke of
one another.

He meant no reflection upon her Ladyship's informants, or rather
surmisants, (as he might call them,) be they who they would: nor did he
think himself obliged to defend characters impeached, or not thought well
of, by women of virtue and honour.  Neither were these people of
importance enough to have so much said about them.

The pretended Lady Betty said, all who knew her, would clear her of
censoriousness: that it gave her some opinion, she must needs say, of the
people, that he had continued there so long with me; that I had rather
negative than positive reasons of dislike to them; and that so shrewd a
man as she heard Captain Tomlinson was had not objected to them.

I think, niece Charlotte, proceeded she, as my nephew had not parted with
these lodgings, you and I, (for, as my dear Miss Harlowe dislikes the
people, I would not ask her for her company) will take a dish of tea with
my nephew there, before we go out of town; and then we shall see what
sort of people they are.  I have heard that Mrs. Sinclair is a mighty
forbidding creature.

With all my heart, Madam.  In your Ladyship's company I shall make no
scruple of going any where.

It was Ladyship at every word; and as she seemed proud of her title, and
of her dress too, I might have guessed that she was not used to either.

What say you, cousin Lovelace?  Lady Sarah, though a melancholy woman, is
very inquisitive about all your affairs.  I must acquaint her with every
particular circumstance when I go down.

With all his heart.  He would attend her whenever she pleased.  She would
see very handsome apartments, and very civil people.

The deuce is in them, said the Miss Montague, if they appear other to us.

She then fell into family talk; family happiness on my hoped-for
accession into it.  They mentioned Lord M.'s and Lady Sarah's great
desire to see me: how many friends and admirers, with uplift hands, I
should have!  [Oh! my dear, what a triumph must these creatures, and he,
have over the poor devoted all the time!]--What a happy man he would be!
--They would not, the Lady Betty said, give themselves the mortification
but to suppose that I should not be one of them!

Presents were hinted at.  She resolved that I should go with her to
Glenham-hall.  She would not be refused, although she were to stay a week
beyond her time for me.

She longed for the expected letter from you.  I must write to hasten it,
and to let Miss Howe know how every thing stood since I wrote last.  That
might dispose me absolutely in her favour and in her nephew's; and then
she hoped there would be no occasion for me to think of entering upon any
new measures.

Indeed, my dear, I did at the time intend, if I heard not from you by
morning, to dispatch a man and horse to you, with the particulars of all,
that you might (if you thought proper) at least put off Mrs. Townsend's
coming up to another day.--But I was miserably prevented.

She made me promise that I would write to you upon this subject, whether
I heard from you or not.  One of her servants should ride post with my
letter, and wait for Miss Howe's answer.

She then launched out in deserved praises of you, my dear.  How fond she
should be of the honour of your acquaintance.

The pretended Miss Montague joined in with her, as well for herself as
for her sister.

Abominably well instructed were they both!

O my dear! what risks may poor giddy girls run, when they throw
themselves out of the protection of their natural friends, and into the
wide world!

The then talked again of reconciliation and intimacy with every one of my
friends; with my mother particularly; and gave the dear good lady the
praises that every one gives her, who has the happiness to know her.

Ah, my dear Miss Howe!  I had almost forgot my resentments against the
pretended nephew!--So many agreeable things said, made me think, that, if
you should advise it, and if I could bring my mind to forgive the wretch
for an outrage so premeditatedly vile, and could forbear despising him
for that and his other ungrateful and wicked ways, I might not be unhappy
in an alliance with such a family.  Yet, thought I at the time, with what
intermixture does every thing come to me that had the appearance of good!
----However, as my lucid hopes made me see fewer faults in the behaviour
of these pretended ladies, than recollection and abhorrence have helped
me since to see, I began to reproach myself, that I had not at first
thrown myself into their protection.

But amidst all these delightful prospects, I must not, said the Lady
Betty, forget that I am to go to town.

She then ordered her coach to be got to the door.--We will all go to town
together, said she, and return together.  Morrison shall stay here, and
see every thing as I am used to have it, in relation to my apartment, and
my bed; for I am very particular in some respects.  My cousin Leeson's
servants can do all I want to be done with regard to my night-dresses,
and the like.  And it will be a little airing for you, my dear, and a
want of your apparel to be sent from your former lodgings to Mrs.
Leeson's; and we can bring it up with us from thence.

I had no intention to comply.  But as I did not imagine that she would
insist upon my going to town with them, I made no answer to that part of
her speech.

I must here lay down my tired pen!

Recollection! heart-affecting recollection! how it pains me!



LETTER LXIX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE


In the midst of this agreeableness, the coach came to the door.  The
pretended Lady Betty besought me to give them my company to their cousin
Leeson's.  I desired to be excused: yet suspected nothing.  She would not
be denied.  How happy would a visit so condescending make her cousin
Leeson!----Her cousin Leeson was not unworthy of my acquaintance: and
would take it for the greatest favour in the world.

I objected my dress.  But the objection was not admitted.  She bespoke a
supper of Mrs. Moore to be ready at nine.

Mr. Lovelace, vile hypocrite, and wicked deceiver! seeing, as he said, my
dislike to go, desired his Ladyship not to insist upon it.

Fondness for my company was pleaded.  She begged me to oblige her: made a
motion to help me to my fan herself: and, in short, was so very urgent,
that my feet complied against my speech and my mind: and being, in a
manner, led to the coach by her, and made to step in first, she followed
me: and her pretended niece, and the wretch, followed her: and away it
drove.

Nothing but the height of affectionate complaisance passed all the way:
over and over, what a joy would this unexpected visit give her cousin
Leeson!  What a pleasure must it be to such a mind as mine, to be able
to give so much joy to every body I came near!

The cruel, the savage seducer (as I have since recollected) was in a
rapture all the way; but yet such a sort of rapture, as he took visible
pains to check.

Hateful villain! how I abhor him!--What mischief must be then in his
plotting heart!--What a devoted victim must I be in all their eyes!

Though not pleased, I was nevertheless just then thoughtless of danger;
they endeavouring thus to lift me up above all apprehensions of that, and
above myself too.

But think, my dear, what a dreadful turn all had upon me, when, through
several streets and ways I knew nothing of, the coach slackening its
pace, came within sight of the dreadful house of the dreadfullest woman
in the world; as she proved to me.

Lord be good unto me! cried the poor fool, looking out of the coach--Mr.
Lovelace!--Madam! turning to the pretended Lady Betty!--Madam! turning to
the niece, my hands and eyes lifted up--Lord be good unto me!

What!  What!  What! my dear.

He pulled the string--What need to have come this way? said he--But since
we are, I will but ask a question--My dearest life, why this
apprehension?

The coachman stopped: his servant, who, with one of her's was behind,
alighted--Ask, said he, if I have any letters?  Who knows, my dearest
creature, turning to me, but we may already have one from the Captain?--
We will not go out of the coach!--Fear nothing--Why so apprehensive?--Oh!
these fine spirits!--cried the execrable insulter.

Dreadfully did my heart then misgive me: I was ready to faint.  Why this
terror, my life? you shall not stir out of the coach but one question,
now the fellow has drove us this way.

Your lady will faint, cried the execrable Lady Betty, turning to him--My
dearest Niece! (niece I will call you, taking my hand)--we must alight,
if you are so ill.--Let us alight--only for a glass of water and
hartshorn--indeed we must alight.

No, no, no--I am well--quite well--Won't the man drive on?--I am well--
quite well--indeed I am.--Man, drive on, putting my head out of the coach
--Man, drive on!--though my voice was too low to be heard.

The coach stopt at the door.  How I trembled!

Dorcas came to the door, on its stopping.

My dearest creature, said the vile man, gasping, as it were for breath,
you shall not alight--Any letters for me, Dorcas?

There are two, Sir.  And here is a gentleman, Mr. Belton, Sir, waits for
your honour; and has done so above an hour.

I'll just speak to him.  Open the door--You sha'n't step out, my dear--A
letter perhaps from Captain already!--You sha'n't step out, my dear.

I sighed as if my heart would burst.

But we must step out, Nephew: your lady will faint.  Maid, a glass of
hartshorn and water!--My dear you must step out--You will faint, child--
We must cut your laces.--[I believe my complexion was all manner of
colours by turns]--Indeed, you must step out, my dear.

He knew, said I, I should be well, the moment the coach drove from the
door.  I should not alight.  By his soul, I should not.

Lord, Lord, Nephew, Lord, Lord, Cousin, both women in a breath, what ado
you make about nothing!  You persuade your lady to be afraid of
alighting.--See you not that she is just fainting?

Indeed, Madam, said the vile seducer, my dearest love must not be moved
in this point against her will.  I beg it may not be insisted upon.

Fiddle-faddle, foolish man--What a pother is here!  I guess how it is:
you are ashamed to let us see what sort of people you carried your lady
among--but do you go out, and speak to your friend, and take your
letters.

He stept out; but shut the coach-door after him, to oblige me.

The coach may go on, Madam, said I.

The coach shall go on, my dear life, said he.--But he gave not, nor
intended to give, orders that it should.

Let the coach go on! said I--Mr. Lovelace may come after us.

Indeed, my dear, you are ill!--Indeed you must alight--alight but for one
quarter of an hour.--Alight but to give orders yourself about your
things.  Whom can you be afraid of in my company, and my niece's; these
people must have behaved shockingly to you!  Please the Lord, I'll
inquire into it!--I'll see what sort of people they are!

Immediately came the old creature to the door.  A thousand pardons, dear
Madam, stepping to the coach-side, if we have any way offended you--Be
pleased, Ladies, [to the other two] to alight.

Well, my dear, whispered the Lady Betty, I now find that an hideous
description of a person we never saw is an advantage to them.  I thought
the woman was a monster--but, really, she seems tolerable.

I was afraid I should have fallen into fits: but still refused to go out
--Man!--Man!--Man!--cried I, gaspingly, my head out of the coach and in,
by turns, half a dozen times running, drive on!--Let us go!

My heart misgave me beyond the power of my own accounting for it; for
still I did not suspect these women.  But the antipathy I had taken to
the vile house, and to find myself so near it, when I expected no such
matter, with the sight of the old creature, all together made me behave
like a distracted person.

The hartshorn and water was brought.  The pretended Lady Betty made me
drink it.  Heaven knows if there was any thing else in it!

Besides, said she, whisperingly, I must see what sort of creatures the
nieces are.  Want of delicacy cannot be hid from me.  You could not
surely, my dear, have this aversion to re-enter a house, for a few
minutes, in our company, in which you lodged and boarded several weeks,
unless these women could be so presumptuously vile, as my nephew ought
not to know.

Out stept the pretended lady; the servant, at her command, having opened
the door.

Dearest Madam, said the other to me, let me follow you, [for I was next
the door.]  Fear nothing: I will not stir from your presence.

Come, my dear, said the pretended lady, give me your hand; holding out
her's.  Oblige me this once.

I will bless your footsteps, said the old creature, if once more you
honour my house with your presence.

A crowd by this time was gathered about us; but I was too much affected
to mind that.

Again the pretended Miss Montague urged me; standing up as ready to go
out if I would give her room.--Lord, my dear, said she, who can bear this
crowd?--What will people think?

The pretended Lady again pressed me, with both her hands held out--Only,
my dear, to give orders about your things.

And thus pressed, and gazed at, (for then I looked about me,) the women
so richly dressed, people whispering; in an evil moment, out stepped I,
trembling, forced to lean with both my hands (frighted too much for
ceremony) on the pretended Lady Betty's arm--Oh! that I had dropped down
dead upon the guilty threshold!

We shall stay but a few minutes, my dear!--but a few minutes! said the
same specious jilt--out of breath with her joy, as I have since thought,
that they had thus triumphed over the unhappy victim!

Come, Mrs. Sinclair, I think your name is, show us the way----following
her, and leading me.  I am very thirsty.  You have frighted me, my dear,
with your strange fears.  I must have tea made, if it can be done in a
moment.  We have farther to go, Mrs. Sinclair, and must return to
Hampstead this night.

It shall be ready in a moment, cried the wretch.  We have water boiling.

Hasten, then--Come, my dear, to me, as she led me through the passage to
the fatal inner house--lean upon me--how you tremble!--how you falter in
your steps!--Dearest niece Lovelace, [the old wretch being in hearing,]
why these hurries upon your spirits?--We'll be gone in a minute.

And thus she led the poor sacrifice into the old wretch's too-well-known
parlour.

Never was any body so gentle, so meek, so low voiced, as the odious
woman; drawling out, in a puling accent, all the obliging things she
could say: awed, I then thought, by the conscious dignity of a woman of
quality; glittering with jewels.

The called-for tea was ready presently.

There was no Mr. Belton, I believe: for the wretch went not to any body,
unless it were while we were parlying in the coach.  No such person
however, appeared at the tea-table.

I was made to drink two dishes, with milk, complaisantly urged by the
pretended ladies helping me each to one.  I was stupid to their hands;
and, when I took the tea, almost choked with vapours; and could hardly
swallow.

I thought, transiently thought, that the tea, the last dish particularly,
had an odd taste.  They, on my palating it, observed, that the milk was
London-milk; far short in goodness of what they were accustomed to from
their own dairies.

I have no doubt that my two dishes, and perhaps my hartshorn, were
prepared for me; in which case it was more proper for their purpose, that
they should help me, than that I should help myself.  Ill before, I found
myself still more and more disordered in my head; a heavy torpid pain
increasing fast upon me.  But I imputed it to my terror.

Nevertheless, at the pretended Lady's motion, I went up stairs, attended
by Dorcas; who affected to weep for joy, that she once more saw my
blessed face; that was the vile creature's word: and immediately I set
about taking out some of my clothes, ordering what should be put up, and
what sent after me.

While I was thus employed, up came the pretended Lady Betty, in a
hurrying way----My dear, you won't be long before you are ready.  My
nephew is very busy in writing answers to his letters: so, I'll just whip
away, and change my dress, and call upon you in an instant.

O Madam!--I am ready!  I am now ready!--You must not leave me here.  And
down I sunk, affrighted, into a chair.

This instant, this instant, I will return--before you can be ready--
before you can have packed up your things--we would not be late--the
robbers we have heard of may be out--don't let us be late.

And away she hurried before I could say another word.  Her pretended
niece went with her, without taking notice to me of her going.

I had no suspicion yet that these women were not indeed the ladies
they personated; and I blamed myself for my weak fears.--It cannot be,
thought I, that such ladies will abet treachery against a poor creature
they are so fond of.  They must undoubtedly be the persons they appear to
be--what folly to doubt it!  The air, the dress, the dignity of women of
quality.  How unworthy of them, and of my charity, concluded I, is this
ungenerous shadow of suspicion!

So, recovering my stupefied spirits, as well as they could be recovered,
(for I was heavier and heavier! and wondered to Dorcas what ailed me,
rubbing my eyes, and taking some of her snuff, pinch after pinch, to very
little purpose,) I pursued my employment: but when that was over, all
packed up that I designed to be packed up; and I had nothing to do but to
think; and found them tarry so long; I thought I should have gone
distracted.  I shut myself into the chamber that had been mine; I
kneeled, I prayed; yet knew not what I prayed for: then ran out again: it
was almost dark night, I said: where, where, where was Mr. Lovelace?

He came to me, taking no notice at first of my consternation and
wildness, [what they had given me made me incoherent and wild:] All goes
well, said he, my dear!--A line from Capt. Tomlinson!

All indeed did go well for the villanous project of the most cruel and
most villanous of men!

I demanded his aunt!--I demanded his cousin!--The evening, I said, was
closing!--My head was very, very bad, I remember I said--and it grew
worse and worse.--

Terror, however, as yet kept up my spirits; and I insisted upon his going
himself to hasten them.

He called his servant.  He raved at the sex for their delay: 'twas well
that business of consequence seldom depended upon such parading,
unpunctual triflers!

His servant came.

He ordered him to fly to his cousin Leeson's, and to let Lady Betty and
his cousin know how uneasy we both were at their delay: adding, of his
own accord, desire them, if they don't come instantly, to send their
coach, and we will go without them.  Tell them I wonder they'll serve me
so!

I thought this was considerately and fairly put.  But now, indifferent as
my head was, I had a little time to consider the man and his behaviour.
He terrified me with his looks, and with his violent emotions, as he
gazed upon me.  Evident joy-suppressed emotions, as I have since
recollected.  His sentences short, and pronounced as if his breath were
touched.  Never saw I his abominable eyes look as then they looked--
Triumph in them!--fierce and wild; and more disagreeable than the women's
at the vile house appeared to me when I first saw them: and at times,
such a leering, mischief-boding cast!--I would have given the world to
have been an hundred miles from him.  Yet his behaviour was decent--a
decency, however, that I might have seen to be struggled for--for he
snatched my hand two or three times, with a vehemence in his grasp that
hurt me; speaking words of tenderness through his shut teeth, as it
seemed; and let it go with a beggar-voiced humbled accent, like the vile
woman's just before; half-inward; yet his words and manner carrying the
appearance of strong and almost convulsed passion!--O my dear! what
mischief was he not then meditating!

I complained once or twice of thirst.  My mouth seemed parched.  At the
time, I supposed that it was my terror (gasping often as I did for
breath) that parched up the roof of my mouth.  I called for water: some
table-beer was brought me: beer, I suppose, was a better vehicle for
their potions.  I told the maid, that she knew I seldom tasted malt
liquor: yet, suspecting nothing of this nature, being extremely thirsty,
I drank it, as what came next: and instantly, as it were, found myself
much worse than before: as if inebriated, I should fancy: I know not how.

His servant was gone twice as long as he needed: and, just before his
return, came one of the pretended Lady Betty's with a letter for Mr.
Lovelace.

He sent it up to me.  I read it: and then it was that I thought myself a
lost creature; it being to put off her going to Hampstead that night, on
account of violent fits which Miss Montague was pretended to be seized
with; for then immediately came into my head his vile attempt upon me in
this house; the revenge that my flight might too probably inspire him
with on that occasion, and because of the difficulty I made to forgive
him, and to be reconciled to him; his very looks wild and dreadful to me;
and the women of the house such as I had more reason than ever, even from
the pretended Lady Betty's hint, to be afraid of: all these crowding
together in my apprehensive mind, I fell into a kind of phrensy.

I have no remembrance how I was for this time it lasted: but I know that,
in my first agitations, I pulled off my head-dress, and tore my ruffles
in twenty tatters, and ran to find him out.

When a little recovered, I insisted upon the hint he had given me of
their coach.  But the messenger, he said, had told him, that it was sent
to fetch a physician, lest his chariot should be put up, or not ready.

I then insisted upon going directly to Lady Betty's lodgings.

Mrs. Leeson's was now a crowded house, he said: and as my earnestness
could be owing to nothing but groundless apprehensions, [and Oh! what
vows, what protestations of his honour, did he then make!] he hoped I
would not add to their present concern.  Charlotte, indeed, was used to
fits, he said, upon any great surprises, whether of joy or grief; and
they would hold her for one week together, if not got off in a few hours.

You are an observer of eyes, my dear, said the villain; perhaps in secret
insult: Saw you not in Miss Montague's, now-and-then at Hampstead,
something wildish?  I was afraid for her then.  Silence and quiet only do
her good: your concern for her, and her love for you, will but augment
the poor girl's disorder, if you should go.

All impatient with grief and apprehension, I still declared myself
resolved not to stay in that house till morning.  All I had in the world,
my rings, my watch, my little money, for a coach; or, if one were not to
be got, I would go on foot to Hampstead that night, though I walked it by
myself.

A coach was hereupon sent for, or pretended to be sent for.  Any price,
he said, he would give to oblige me, late as it was; and he would attend
me with all his soul.  But no coach was to be got.

Let me cut short the rest.  I grew worse and worse in my head! now
stupid, now raving, now senseless.  The vilest of vile women was brought
to frighten me.  Never was there so horrible a creature as she
appreared to me at this time.

I remember I pleaded for mercy.  I remember that I said I would be his--
indeed I would be his--to obtain his mercy.  But no mercy found I!  My
strength, my intellects failed me--And then such scenes followed--O my
dear, such dreadful scenes!--fits upon fits, (faintly indeed and
imperfectly remembered,) procuring me no compassion--But death was
withheld from me.  That would have been too great a mercy!


***


Thus was I tricked and deluded back by blacker hearts of my own sex than
I thought there were in the world; who appeared to me to be persons of
honour; and, when in his power, thus barbarously was I treated by this
villanous man!

I was so senseless, that I dare not aver, that the horrid creatures of
the house were personally aiding and abetting: but some visionary
remembrances I have of female figures, flitting, as I may say, before my
sight; the wretched woman's particularly.  But as these confused ideas
might be owing to the terror I had conceived of the worse than masculine
violence she had been permitted to assume to me, for expressing my
abhorrence of her house; and as what I suffered from his barbarity wants
not that aggravation; I will say no more on a subject so shocking as this
must ever be to my remembrance.

I never saw the personating wretches afterwards.  He persisted to the
last, (dreadfully invoking Heaven as a witness to the truth of his
assertion) that they were really and truly the ladies they pretended to
be; declaring, that they could not take leave of me, when they left town,
because of the state of senselessness and phrensy I was in.  For their
intoxicating, or rather stupefying, potions had almost deleterious
effects upon my intellects, as I have hinted; insomuch that, for several
days together, I was under a strange delirium; now moping, now dozing,
now weeping, now raving, now scribbling, tearing what I scribbled as fast
as I wrote it: most miserable when now-and-then a ray of reason brought
confusedly to my remembrance what I had suffered.



LETTER LXX

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE
[IN CONTINUATION.]


[The lady next gives an account,

Of her recovery from her delirium and sleepy disorder:

Of her attempt to get away in his absence:

Of the conversations that followed, at his return, between them:

Of the guilty figure he made:

Of her resolution not to have him:

Of her several efforts to escape:

Of her treaty with Dorcas to assist her in it:

Of Dorcas's dropping the promissory note, undoubtedly, as she says, on
      purpose to betray her:

Of her triumph over all the creatures of the house, assembled to terrify
      her; and perhaps to commit fresh outrages upon her:

Of his setting out for M. Hall:

Of his repeated letters to induce her to meet him at the altar, on her
      uncle's anniversary:

Of her determined silence to them all:

Of her second escape, effected, as she says, contrary to her own
      expectation: the attempt being at first but the intended prelude to
      a more promising one, which she had formed in her mind:

And of other particulars; which being to be found in Mr. Lovelace's
      letters preceding, and the letter of his friend Belford, are
      omitted.  She then proceeds:]


The very hour that I found myself in a place of safety, I took pen to
write to you.  When I began, I designed only to write six or eight lines,
to inquire after your health: for, having heard nothing from you, I
feared indeed, that you had been, and still were, too ill to write.  But
no sooner did my pen begin to blot the paper, but my sad heart hurried it
into length.  The apprehensions I had lain under, that I should not be
able to get away; the fatigue I had in effecting my escape: the
difficulty of procuring a lodging for myself; having disliked the people
of two houses, and those of a third disliking me; for you must think I
made a frighted appearance--these, together with the recollection of what
I had suffered from him, and my farther apprehensions of my insecurity,
and my desolate circumstances, had so disordered me, that I remember I
rambled strangely in that letter.

In short, I thought it, on re-perusal, a half-distracted one: but I then
despaired, (were I to begin again,) of writing better: so I let it go:
and can have no excuse for directing it as I did, if the cause of the
incoherence in it will not furnish me with a very pitiable one.

The letter I received from your mother was a dreadful blow to me.  But
nevertheless it had the good effect upon me (labouring, as I did just
then, under a violent fit of vapourish despondency, and almost yielding
to it) which profuse bleeding and blisterings have in paralytic or
apoplectical strokes; reviving my attention, and restoring me to spirits
to combat the evils I was surrounded by--sluicing off, and diverting into
a new channel, (if I may be allowed another metaphor,) the overcharging
woes which threatened once more to overwhelm my intellects.

But yet I most sincerely lamented, (and still lament,) in your mother's
words, That I cannot be unhappy by myself: and was grieved, not only for
the trouble I had given you before; but for the new one I had brought
upon you by my inattention.


[She then gives the substance of the letters she wrote to Mrs. Norton, to
      Lady Betty Lawrance, and to Mrs. Hodges; as also of their answers;
      whereby she detected all Mr. Lovelace's impostures.  She proceeds
      as follows:]


I cannot, however, forbear to wonder how the vile Tomlinson could come at
the knowledge of several of the things he told me of, and which
contributed to give me confidence in him.*


* The attentive reader need not be referred back for what the Lady
nevertheless could not account for, as she knew not that Mr. Lovelace had
come at Miss Howe's letters; particularly that in Vol. IV. Letter XXIX.
which he comments upon in Letter XLIV. of the same volume.


I doubt not that the stories of Mrs. Fretchville and her house would be
found as vile as any of the rest, were I to inquire; and had I not
enough, and too much, already against the perjured man.

How have I been led on!--What will be the end of such a false and
perjured creature!  Heaven not less profaned and defied by him than
myself deceived and abused!  This, however, against myself I must say,
That if what I have suffered be the natural consequence of my first
error, I never can forgive myself, although you are so partial in my
favour, as to say, that I was not censurable for what passed before my
first escape.

And now, honoured Madam, and my dearest Miss Howe, who are to sit in
judgment upon my case, permit me to lay down my pen with one request,
which, with the greatest earnestness, I make to you both: and that is,
That you will neither of you open your lips in relation to the potions
and the violences I have hinted at.--Not that I am solicitous, that my
disgrace should be hidden from the world, or that it should not be
generally known, that the man has proved a villain to me: for this, it
seems, every body but myself expected from his character.  But suppose,
as his actions by me are really of a capital nature, it were insisted
upon that I should appear to prosecute him and his accomplices in a court
of justice, how do you think I could bear that?

But since my character, before the capital enormity, was lost in the eye
of the world; and that from the very hour I left my father's house; and
since all my own hopes of worldly happiness are entirely over; let me
slide quietly into my grave; and let it be not remembered, except by one
friendly tear, and no more, dropt from your gentle eye, mine own dear
Anna Howe, on the happy day that shall shut up all my sorrows, that there
was such a creature as

CLARISSA HARLOWE

SATURDAY, JULY 8.



LETTER LXXI

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE
SUNDAY, JULY 9.


May Heaven signalize its vengeance, in the face of all the world, upon
the most abandoned and profligate of men!--And in its own time, I doubt
not but it will.--And we must look to a WORLD BEYOND THIS for the reward
of your sufferings!

Another shocking detection, my dear!--How have you been deluded!--Very
watchful I have thought you; very sagacious:--but, alas! not watchful,
not sagacious enough, for the horrid villain you have had to deal with!
----

The letter you sent me enclosed as mine, of the 7th of June, is a
villanous forgery.*


* See Vol. V. Letter XXX.


The hand, indeed, is astonishingly like mine; and the cover, I see, is
actually my cover: but yet the letter is not so exactly imitated, but
that, (had you had any suspicions about his vileness at the time,) you,
who so well know my hand, might have detected it.

In short, this vile, forged letter, though a long one, contains but a
few extracts from mine.  Mine was a very long one.  He has omitted every
thing, I see, in it that could have shown you what a detestable house the
house is; and given you suspicions of the vile Tomlinson.--You will see
this, and how he has turned Miss Lardner's information, and my advices to
you, [execrable villain!] to his own horrid ends, by the rough draught of
the genuine letter, which I shall enclose.*


* See Vol. V. Letter XX.


Apprehensive for both our safeties from the villany of such a daring and
profligate contriver, I must call upon you, my dear, to resolve upon
taking legal vengeance of the infernal wretch.  And this not only for our
own sakes, but for the sakes of innocents who otherwise may yet be
deluded and outraged by him.


[She then gives the particulars of the report made by the young fellow
      whom she sent to Hampstead with her letter; and who supposed he had
      delivered it into her own hand;* and then proceeds:]


* See Vol. VI. Letter VI.


I am astonished, that the vile wretch, who could know nothing of the time
my messenger, (whose honesty I can vouch for) would come, could have a
creature ready to personate you!  Strange, that the man should happen to
arrive just as you were gone to church, (as I find was the fact, on
comparing what he says with your hint that you were at church twice that
day,) when he might have got to Mrs. Moore's two hours before!--But had
you told me, my dear, that the villain had found you out, and was about
you!--You should have done that--yet I blame you upon a judgment founded
on the event only!

I never had any faith in the stories that go current among country girls,
of specters, familiars, and demons; yet I see not any other way to
account for this wretch's successful villany, and for his means of
working up his specious delusions, but by supposing, (if he be not the
devil himself,) that he has a familiar constantly at his elbow.
Sometimes it seems to me that this familiar assumes the shape of that
solemn villain Tomlinson: sometimes that of the execrable Sinclair, as he
calls her: sometimes it is permitted to take that of Lady Betty Lawrance
--but, when it would assume the angelic shape and mien of my beloved
friend, see what a bloated figure it made!

'Tis my opinion, my dear, that you will be no longer safe where you are,
than while the V. is in the country.  Words are poor!--or how could I
execrate him!  I have hardly any doubt that he has sold himself for a
time.  Oh! may the time be short!--or may his infernal prompter no more
keep covenant with him than he does with others!

I enclose not only the rough draught of my long letter mentioned above,
but the heads of that which the young fellow thought he delivered into
your own hands at Hampstead.  And when you have perused them, I will
leave to you to judge how much reason I had to be surprised that you
wrote me not an answer to either of those letters; one of which you owned
you had received, (though it proved to be his forged one,) the other
delivered into your own hands, as I was assured; and both of them of so
much concern to your honour; and still now much more surprised I must be,
when I received a letter from Mrs. Townsend, dated June 15, from
Hampstead, importing, 'That Mr. Lovelace, who had been with you several
days, had, on the Monday before, brought Lady Betty and his cousin,
richly dressed, and in a coach-and-four, to visit you: who, with your own
consent, had carried you to town with them--to your former lodgings;
where you still were: that the Hampstead women believed you to be
married; and reflected upon me as a fomenter of differences between man
and wife: that he himself was at Hampstead the day before; viz. Wednesday
the 14th; and boasted of his happiness with you; inviting Mrs. Moore,
Mrs. Bevis, and Miss Rawlins, to go to town, to visit his spouse; which
they promised to do: that he declared that you were entirely reconciled
to your former lodgings:--and that, finally, the women at Hampstead told
Mrs. Townsend, that he had very handsomely discharged theirs.'

I own to you, my dear, that I was so much surprised and disgusted at
these appearances against a conduct till then unexceptionable, that I was
resolved to make myself as easy as I could, and wait till you should
think fit to write to me.  But I could rein-in my impatience but for a
few days; and on the 20th of June I wrote a sharp letter to you; which I
find you did not receive.

What a fatality, my dear, has appeared in your case, from the very
beginning till this hour!  Had my mother permitted----

But can I blame her; when you have a father and mother living, who have
so much to answer for?--So much!--as no father and mother, considering
the child they have driven, persecuted, exposed, renounced, ever had to
answer for!

But again I must execrate the abandoned villain--yet, as I said before,
all words are poor, and beneath the occasion.

But see we not, in the horrid perjuries and treachery of this man, what
rakes and libertines will do, when they get a young creature into their
power!  It is probable that he might have the intolerable presumption to
hope an easier conquest: but, when your unexampled vigilance and exalted
virtue made potions, and rapes, and the utmost violences, necessary to
the attainment of his detestable end, we see that he never boggled at
them.  I have no doubt that the same or equal wickedness would be oftener
committed by men of his villanous cast, if the folly and credulity of the
poor inconsiderates who throw themselves into their hands, did not give
them an easier triumph.

With what comfort must those parents reflect upon these things who have
happily disposed of their daughters in marriage to a virtuous man!  And
how happy the young women who find themselves safe in a worthy
protection!--If such a person as Miss Clarissa Harlowe could not escape,
who can be secure?--Since, though every rake is not a LOVELACE, neither
is every woman a CLARISSA: and his attempts were but proportioned to your
resistance and vigilance.

My mother has commanded me to let you know her thoughts upon the whole of
your sad story.  I will do it in another letter; and send it to you with
this, by a special messenger.

But, for the future, if you approve of it, I will send my letters by the
usual hand, (Collins's,) to be left at the Saracen's Head, on Snow-hill:
whither you may send your's, (as we both used to do, to Wilson's,) except
such as we shall think fit to transmit by the post: which I am afraid,
after my next, must be directed to Mr. Hickman, as before: since my
mother is fixing a condition to our correspondence, which, I doubt, you
will not comply with, though I wish you would.  This condition I shall
acquaint you with by-and-by.

Mean time, begging excuse for all the harsh things in my last, of which
your sweet meekness and superior greatness of soul have now made me most
heartily ashamed, I beseech you, my dearest creature, to believe me to be

Your truly sympathising,
and unalterable friend,
ANNA HOWE.



LETTER LXXII

MISS HOWE, TO MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE
MONDAY, JULY 10.


I now, my dearest friend, resume my pen, to obey my mother, in giving you
her opinion upon your unhappy story.

She still harps upon the old string, and will have it that all your
calamities are owing to your first fatal step; for she believes, (what I
cannot,) that your relations had intended after one general trial more,
to comply with your aversion, if they had found it to be as riveted a
one, as, let me say, it was a folly to suppose it would not be found to
be, after so many ridiculously-repeated experiments.

As to your latter sufferings from that vilest of miscreants, she is
unalterably of opinion that if all be as you have related (which she
doubts not) with regard to the potions, and to the violences you have
sustained, you ought by all means to set on foot a prosecution against
him, and against his devilish accomplices.

She asks, What murderers, what ravishers, would be brought to justice, if
modesty were to be a general plea, and allowable, against appearing in a
court to prosecute?

She says, that the good of society requires, that such a beast of prey
should be hunted out of it: and, if you do not prosecute him, she thinks
you will be answerable for all the mischiefs he may do in the course of
his future villanous life.

Will it be thought, Nancy, said she, that Miss Clarissa Harlowe can be in
earnest, when she says, she is not solicitous to have her disgraces
concealed from the world, if she be afraid or ashamed to appear in court,
to do justice to herself and her sex against him?  Will it not be rather
surmised, that she may be apprehensive that some weakness, or lurking
love, will appear upon the trial of the strange cause?  If, inferred she,
such complicated villany as this (where perjury, potions, forgery,
subornation, are all combined to effect the ruin of an innocent creature,
and to dishonour a family of eminence, and where the very crimes, as may
be supposed, are proofs of her innocence) is to go off with impunity,
what case will deserve to be brought into judgment? or what malefactor
ought to be hanged?

Then she thinks, and so do I, that the vile creatures, his accomplices,
ought, by all means, to be brought to condign punishment, as they must
and will be upon bringing him to trial: and this may be a mean to blow up
and root out a whole nest of vipers, and save many innocent creatures.

She added, that if Miss Clarissa Harlowe could be so indifferent about
having this public justice done upon such a wretch for her own sake, she
ought to overcome her scruples out of regard to her family, her
acquaintance, and her sex, which are all highly injured and scandalized
by his villany to her.

For her own part, she declares, that were she your mother, she would
forgive you upon no other terms: and, upon your compliance with these,
she herself will undertake to reconcile all your family to you.

These, my dear, are my mother's sentiments upon your sad story.

I cannot say but there are reason and justice in them: and it is my
opinion, that it would be very right for the law to oblige an injured
woman to prosecute, and to make seduction on the man's part capital,
where his studied baseness, and no fault in her will, appeared.

To this purpose the custom in the Isle of Man is a very good one----

'If a single woman there prosecutes a single man for a rape, the
ecclesiastical judges impannel a jury; and, if this jury find him guilty,
he is returned guilty to the temporal courts: where if he be convicted,
the deemster, or judge, delivers to the woman a rope, a sword, and a
ring; and she has it in her choice to have him hanged, beheaded, or to
marry him.'

One of the two former, I think, should always be her option.

I long for the particulars of your story.  You must have too much time
upon your hands for a mind so active as your's, if tolerable health and
spirits be afforded you.

The villany of the worst of men, and the virtue of the most excellent of
women, I expect will be exemplified in it, were it to be written in the
same connected and particular manner in which you used to write to me.

Try for it, my dearest friend; and since you cannot give the example
without the warning, give both, for the sakes of all those who shall hear
of your unhappy fate; beginning from your's of June 5, your prospects
then not disagreeable.  I pity you for the task; though I cannot
willingly exempt you from it.


***


My mother will have me add, that she must insist upon your prosecuting
the villain.  She repeats, that she makes that a condition on which she
permits our future correspondence.  Let me therefore know your thoughts
upon it.  I asked her, if she would be willing that I should appear to
support you in court, if you complied?--By all means, she said, if that
would induce you to begin with him, and with the horrid women.  I think I
could probably attend you, I am sure I could, were there but a
probability of bringing the monster to his deserved end.

Once more your thoughts of it, supposing it were to meet with the
approbation of your relations.

But whatever be your determination on this head, it shall be my constant
prayer, that God will give you patience to bear your heavy afflictions,
as a person ought to do who has not brought them upon herself by a faulty
will: that He will speak peace and comfort to your wounded mind; and give
you many happy years.  I am, and ever will be,

Your affectionate and faithful
ANNA HOWE.


***


[The two preceding letters were sent by a special messenger: in the cover
      were written the following lines:]

MONDAY, JULY 10.

I cannot, my dearest friend, suffer the enclosed to go unaccompanied by a
few lines, to signify to you that they are both less tender in some
places than I would have written, had they not been to pass my mother's
inspection.  The principal reason, however, of my writing thus separately
is, to beg of you to permit me to send you money and necessaries, which
you must needs want; and that you will let me know, if either I, or any
body I can influence, can be of service to you.  I am excessively
apprehensive that you are not enough out of the villain's reach where you
are.  Yet London, I am persuaded, is the place, of all others, to be
private in.

I could tear my hair for vexation, that I have it not in my power to
afford you personal protection!--I am

Your ever devoted
ANNA HOWE.


Once more forgive me, my dearest creature, for my barbarous taunting in
mine of the 5th!  Yet I can hardly forgive myself.  I to be so cruel, yet
to know you so well!--Whence, whence, had I this vile impatiency of
spirit!--



LETTER LXXIII

MISS CLARISSA HARLOWE, TO MISS HOWE
TUESDAY, JULY 11.


Forgive you, my dear!--Most cordially do I forgive you--Will you forgive
me for some sharp things I wrote in return to your's of the 5th?  You
could not have loved me as you do, nor had the concern you have always
shown for my honour, if you had not been utterly displeased with me, on
the appearance which my conduct wore to you when you wrote that letter.
I most heartily thank you, my best and only love, for the opportunity you
gave me of clearing it up; and for being generously ready to acquit me of
intentional blame, the moment you had read my melancholy narrative.

As you are so earnest to have all the particulars of my sad story before
you, I will, if life and spirits be lent me, give you an ample account of
all that has befallen me, from the time you mention.  But this, it is
very probable, you will not see, till after the close of my last scene:
and as I shall write with a view to that, I hope no other voucher will be
wanted for the veracity of the writer, be who will the reader.

I am far from thinking myself out of the reach of this man's further
violence.  But what can I do?  Whither can I fly?--Perhaps my bad state
of health (which must grow worse, as recollection of the past evils, and
reflections upon them, grow heavier and heavier upon me) may be my
protection.  Once, indeed, I thought of going abroad; and, had I the
prospect of many years before me, I would go.--But, my dear, the blow is
given.--Nor have you reason now, circumstanced as I am, to be concerned
that it is.  What a heart must I have, if it be not broken--and indeed,
my dear friend, I do so earnestly wish for the last closing scene, and
with so much comfort find myself in a declining way, that I even
sometimes ungratefully regret that naturally-healthy constitution, which
used to double upon me all my enjoyments.

As to the earnestly-recommended prosecution, I may possibly touch upon it
more largely hereafter, if ever I shall have better spirits; for they are
at present extremely sunk and low.  But just now, I will only say, that I
would sooner suffer every evil (the repetition of the capital one
excepted) than appear publicly in a court to do myself justice.*  And I
am heartily grieved that your mother prescribes such a measure as the
condition of our future correspondence: for the continuance of your
friendship, my dear, and the desire I had to correspond with you to my
life's end, were all my remaining hopes and consolation.  Nevertheless,
as that friendship is in the power of the heart, not of the hand only, I
hope I shall not forfeit that.


* Dr. Lewen, in Letter XXIV. of Vol. VIII. presses her to this public
prosecution, by arguments worthy of his character; which she answers in a
manner worthy of her's.  See Letter XXV. of that volume.


O my dear! what would I give to obtain a revocation of my father's
malediction! a reconciliation is not to be hoped for.  You, who never
loved my father, may think my solicitude on this head a weakness: but the
motive for it, sunk as my spirits at times are, is not always weak.


***


I approve of the method you prescribe for the conveyance of our letters;
and have already caused the porter of the inn to be engaged to bring to
me your's, the moment that Collins arrives with them.  And the servant of
the house where I am will be permitted to carry mine to Collins for you.

I have written a letter to Miss Rawlins, of Hampstead; the answer to
which, just now received, has helped me to the knowledge of the vile
contrivance, by which the wicked man got your letter of June the 10th.  I
will give you the contents of both.

In mine to her, I briefly acquainted her 'with what had befallen me,
through the vileness of the women who had passed upon me as the aunt and
cousin of the wickedest of men; and own, that I never was married to him.
I desire her to make particular inquiry, and to let me know, who it was
at Mrs. Moore's that, on Sunday afternoon, June 11, while I was at
church, received a letter from Miss Howe, pretending to be me, and lying
on a couch:--which letter, had it come to my hands, would have saved me
from ruin.  I excuse myself (on the score of the delirium, which the
horrid usage I had received threw me into, and from a confinement as
barbarous as illegal) that I had not before applied to Mrs. Moore for an
account of what I was indebted to her: which account I now desired.  And,
for fear of being traced by Mr. Lovelace, I directed her to superscribe
her answer, To Mrs. Mary Atkins; to be left till called for, at the Belle
Savage Inn, on Ludgate-hill.'

In her answer, she tells me, 'that the vile wretch prevailed upon Mrs.
Bevis to personate me, [a sudden motion of his, it seems, on the
appearance of your messenger,] and persuaded her to lie along a couch:
a handkerchief over her neck and face; pretending to be ill; the
credulous woman drawn in by false notions of your ill offices to keep up
a variance between a man and his wife--and so taking the letter from your
messenger as me.

'Miss Rawlins takes pains to excuse Mrs. Bevis's intention.  She
expresses their astonishment, and concern at what I communicate: but is
glad, however, and so they are all, that they know in time the vileness
of the base man; the two widows and herself having, at his earnest
invitation, designed me a visit at Mrs. Sinclair's: supposing all to be
happy between him and me; as he assured them was the case.  Mr. Lovelace,
she informs me, had handsomely satisfied Mrs. Moore.  And Miss Rawlins
concludes with wishing to be favoured with the particulars of so
extraordinary a story, as these particulars may be of use, to let her see
what wicked creatures (women as well as men) there are in the world.'

I thank you, my dear, for the draughts of your two letters which were
intercepted by this horrid man.  I see the great advantage they were of
to him, in the prosecution of his villanous designs against the poor
wretch whom he had so long made the sport of his abhorred inventions.

Let me repeat, that I am quite sick of life; and of an earth, in which
innocent and benevolent spirits are sure to be considered as aliens, and
to be made sufferers by the genuine sons and daughters of that earth.

How unhappy, that those letters only which could have acquainted me with
his horrid views, and armed me against them, and against the vileness of
the base women, should fall into his hands!--Unhappier still, in that my
very escape to Hampstead gave him the opportunity of receiving them.

Nevertheless, I cannot but still wonder, how it was possible for that
Tomlinson to know what passed between Mr. Hickman and my uncle Harlowe:*
a circumstance which gave the vile impostor most of his credit with me.


* See the note in Letter LXX. of this volume.


How the wicked wretch himself could find me out at Hampstead, must also
remain wholly a mystery to me.  He may glory in his contrivances--he, who
has more wickedness than wit, may glory in his contrivances!--But, after
all, I shall, I humbly presume to hope, be happy, when he, poor wretch,
will be--alas!--who can say what!----

Adieu, my dearest friend!--May you be happy!--And then your Clarissa
cannot be wholly miserable!

END OF VOL. 6.





End of Project Gutenberg's Clarissa, Volume 6 (of 9), by Samuel Richardson

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK CLARISSA, VOLUME 6 (OF 9) ***

***** This file should be named 11364-8.txt or 11364-8.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.net/1/1/3/6/11364/

Produced by Produced by Julie C. Sparks.

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions
will be renamed.

Creating the works from public domain print editions means that no
one owns a United States copyright in these works, so the Foundation
(and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United States without
permission and without paying copyright royalties.  Special rules,
set forth in the General Terms of Use part of this license, apply to
copying and distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works to
protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm concept and trademark.  Project
Gutenberg is a registered trademark, and may not be used if you
charge for the eBooks, unless you receive specific permission.  If you
do not charge anything for copies of this eBook, complying with the
rules is very easy.  You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose
such as creation of derivative works, reports, performances and
research.  They may be modified and printed and given away--you may do
practically ANYTHING with public domain eBooks.  Redistribution is
subject to the trademark license, especially commercial
redistribution.



*** START: FULL LICENSE ***

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full Project
Gutenberg-tm License (available with this file or online at
http://gutenberg.net/license).


Section 1.  General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works

1.A.  By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement.  If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or destroy
all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your possession.
If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound by the
terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the person or
entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph 1.E.8.

1.B.  "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark.  It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement.  There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement.  See
paragraph 1.C below.  There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this agreement
and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.  See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C.  The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the Foundation"
or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection of Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works.  Nearly all the individual works in the
collection are in the public domain in the United States.  If an
individual work is in the public domain in the United States and you are
located in the United States, we do not claim a right to prevent you from
copying, distributing, performing, displaying or creating derivative
works based on the work as long as all references to Project Gutenberg
are removed.  Of course, we hope that you will support the Project
Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting free access to electronic works by
freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm works in compliance with the terms of
this agreement for keeping the Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with
the work.  You can easily comply with the terms of this agreement by
keeping this work in the same format with its attached full Project
Gutenberg-tm License when you share it without charge with others.

1.D.  The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work.  Copyright laws in most countries are in
a constant state of change.  If you are outside the United States, check
the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this agreement
before downloading, copying, displaying, performing, distributing or
creating derivative works based on this work or any other Project
Gutenberg-tm work.  The Foundation makes no representations concerning
the copyright status of any work in any country outside the United
States.

1.E.  Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1.  The following sentence, with active links to, or other immediate
access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear prominently
whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work on which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed, performed, viewed,
copied or distributed:

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere at no cost and with
almost no restrictions whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or
re-use it under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included
with this eBook or online at www.gutenberg.net

1.E.2.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is derived
from the public domain (does not contain a notice indicating that it is
posted with permission of the copyright holder), the work can be copied
and distributed to anyone in the United States without paying any fees
or charges.  If you are redistributing or providing access to a work
with the phrase "Project Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the
work, you must comply either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1
through 1.E.7 or obtain permission for the use of the work and the
Project Gutenberg-tm trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or
1.E.9.

1.E.3.  If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any additional
terms imposed by the copyright holder.  Additional terms will be linked
to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works posted with the
permission of the copyright holder found at the beginning of this work.

1.E.4.  Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5.  Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6.  You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including any
word processing or hypertext form.  However, if you provide access to or
distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format other than
"Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official version
posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site (www.gutenberg.net),
you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense to the user, provide a
copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means of obtaining a copy upon
request, of the work in its original "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other
form.  Any alternate format must include the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7.  Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8.  You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works provided
that

- You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
     the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
     you already use to calculate your applicable taxes.  The fee is
     owed to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he
     has agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the
     Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation.  Royalty payments
     must be paid within 60 days following each date on which you
     prepare (or are legally required to prepare) your periodic tax
     returns.  Royalty payments should be clearly marked as such and
     sent to the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the
     address specified in Section 4, "Information about donations to
     the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation."

- You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
     you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
     does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
     License.  You must require such a user to return or
     destroy all copies of the works possessed in a physical medium
     and discontinue all use of and all access to other copies of
     Project Gutenberg-tm works.

- You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of any
     money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
     electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days
     of receipt of the work.

- You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
     distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9.  If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work or group of works on different terms than are set
forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing from
both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and Michael
Hart, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark.  Contact the
Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1.  Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
public domain works in creating the Project Gutenberg-tm
collection.  Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may contain
"Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate or
corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other intellectual
property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or other medium, a
computer virus, or computer codes that damage or cannot be read by
your equipment.

1.F.2.  LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees.  YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH F3.  YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3.  LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from.  If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium with
your written explanation.  The person or entity that provided you with
the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in lieu of a
refund.  If you received the work electronically, the person or entity
providing it to you may choose to give you a second opportunity to
receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund.  If the second copy
is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing without further
opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4.  Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS' WITH NO OTHER
WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTIBILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5.  Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of damages.
If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement violates the
law of the state applicable to this agreement, the agreement shall be
interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or limitation permitted by
the applicable state law.  The invalidity or unenforceability of any
provision of this agreement shall not void the remaining provisions.

1.F.6.  INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in accordance
with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the production,
promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works,
harmless from all liability, costs and expenses, including legal fees,
that arise directly or indirectly from any of the following which you do
or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this or any Project Gutenberg-tm
work, (b) alteration, modification, or additions or deletions to any
Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any Defect you cause.


Section  2.  Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of computers
including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers.  It exists
because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations from
people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need, is critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come.  In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future generations.
To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation
and how your efforts and donations can help, see Sections 3 and 4
and the Foundation web page at http://www.pglaf.org.


Section 3.  Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive
Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service.  The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541.  Its 501(c)(3) letter is posted at
http://pglaf.org/fundraising.  Contributions to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent
permitted by U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is located at 4557 Melan Dr. S.
Fairbanks, AK, 99712., but its volunteers and employees are scattered
throughout numerous locations.  Its business office is located at
809 North 1500 West, Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887, email
business@pglaf.org.  Email contact links and up to date contact
information can be found at the Foundation's web site and official
page at http://pglaf.org

For additional contact information:
     Dr. Gregory B. Newby
     Chief Executive and Director
     gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4.  Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment.  Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States.  Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements.  We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance.  To
SEND DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any
particular state visit http://pglaf.org

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States.  U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses.  Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including including checks, online payments and credit card
donations.  To donate, please visit: http://pglaf.org/donate


Section 5.  General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic
works.

Professor Michael S. Hart is the originator of the Project Gutenberg-tm
concept of a library of electronic works that could be freely shared
with anyone.  For thirty years, he produced and distributed Project
Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as Public Domain in the U.S.
unless a copyright notice is included.  Thus, we do not necessarily
keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper edition.

Each eBook is in a subdirectory of the same number as the eBook's
eBook number, often in several formats including plain vanilla ASCII,
compressed (zipped), HTML and others.

Corrected EDITIONS of our eBooks replace the old file and take over
the old filename and etext number.  The replaced older file is renamed.
VERSIONS based on separate sources are treated as new eBooks receiving
new filenames and etext numbers.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search facility:

     http://www.gutenberg.net

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

EBooks posted prior to November 2003, with eBook numbers BELOW #10000,
are filed in directories based on their release date.  If you want to
download any of these eBooks directly, rather than using the regular
search system you may utilize the following addresses and just
download by the etext year.

     http://www.gutenberg.net/etext06

    (Or /etext 05, 04, 03, 02, 01, 00, 99,
     98, 97, 96, 95, 94, 93, 92, 92, 91 or 90)

EBooks posted since November 2003, with etext numbers OVER #10000, are
filed in a different way.  The year of a release date is no longer part
of the directory path.  The path is based on the etext number (which is
identical to the filename).  The path to the file is made up of single
digits corresponding to all but the last digit in the filename.  For
example an eBook of filename 10234 would be found at:

     http://www.gutenberg.net/1/0/2/3/10234

or filename 24689 would be found at:
     http://www.gutenberg.net/2/4/6/8/24689

An alternative method of locating eBooks:
     http://www.gutenberg.net/GUTINDEX.ALL

