













******** MMaaiinn NNaavviiggaattiioonn ********
    * _H_o_m_e_ _P_a_g_e
    * _I_n_c_e_p_t_i_o_n
    * _E_n_o_u_g_h_ _A_b_o_u_t_ _M_e
    * _T_e_r_m_i_n_o_l_o_g_y
    * _R_i_v_e_r_s_i_d_e
    * _R_i_v_e_r_s_i_d_e_ _R_e_v_i_s_i_t_e_d
    * _B_a_t_e_s_ _A_u_t_o_p_s_y
    * _A_u_t_o_p_s_y_ _C_o_n_f_e_s_s_i_o_n
    * _B_u_t_t_e_r_f_i_e_l_d_ _P_D_F
    * _H_o_r_a_n_ _T_i_m_e_l_i_n_e
    * _R_i_v_e_r_s_i_d_e_ _T_i_m_e_l_i_n_e_ _A
    * _H_o_r_a_n_ _R_e_v_i_s_i_t_e_d
    * _M_o_s_t_l_y_ _M_o_r_f
    * _V_o_i_c_e_ _B_o_x
    * _D_a_v_e_ _O_r_a_n_c_h_a_k
    * _S_t_r_i_n_g_ _T_h_e_o_r_y
Zodiac Killer Timeline
************ RRiivveerrssiiddee RReevviissiitteedd ************
I'm naming this article "Riverside Revisited" for Michael Cole's
_Z_o_d_i_a_c_R_e_v_i_s_i_t_e_d_._c_o_m website.  I get the impression Mike Kelleher decided to
shut down ZodiacKillerCase.com and combine his own Zodiac research with that of
Michael Cole and others in an effort to increase the signal and reduce the
noise coming from the Zodiac online community.  When you consider how little
daylight has been shining on all those separate spinning sidereal worlds of
late, pooling our resources is probably a good idea.

Now that I have so much time on my hands, I've been going through papers up in
my attic (which is partly why I've been posting pages from my books on TZMS),
and found a sheaf of material on Riverside that was downloaded from the
Fortunecity.com website in March 2003.  I wasn't personally on The Internet
very often until 2007 or so, and didn't have a connection at my house until a
couple years ago.  I did occasionally go online at the Carnegie Library here in
Pittsburgh, which is how I discovered Tom's site, and would occasionally
download pages from the original archived message board circa 2000 or so.

In any case, I was surprised there was so much material that I didn't recall in
these downloaded pages from 9 1/2 years ago, none of which appears to be
available in any form online at the moment.

Some of the new material is in conflict with aspects of my timeline as
presented so far, which is fine, since I've always considered what I've done on
the website to be a work in progress.  I can't decide what I think about Cheri
Bates's murder until I've thought about it first.  In the course of checking to
see if this material is available online today, I came across even more
material, most of which is a lot more dubious and speculative, on one of the
Zodiac message boards.  The March 2003 downloads are a kind of time capsule
representing facts and eyewitness accounts that may have been overlooked a
decade ago because the Bates murder itself was not taken seriously as a Zodiac
event.

March 2003



My information is that Cheri was a cheerleader both at Ramona High School and
at RCC; perhaps she skipped a year to make sure she was academically ready for
the move to college?



The Naval Ordnance Laboratory where Joseph worked was also called "Corona", and
was apparently located in or near Corona Del Mar, about which more later.

"The situation at home demanded that Cheri and her father get along."  Cheri's
parents were separated, her brother was in the Navy, and father and daughter
shared a house that was, as far as I can tell from the outside shots and Tom
Voigt's pictures of the interior, relatively small even for two people.  This
is what I meant when I said that, both being bright and sensitive people, they
probably looked for ways to give each other space in their cohabitation.



It's worth noting that Cheri Bates and her dad, for all their closeness, DID
argue about all the aspects of her life, including religion.  That Cheri and
Joseph were both practicing Catholics who attended mass together that Sunday
morning, and yet clearly had differing beliefs within the confines of their
faith, again underlines a reality that a casual look at that last day might
obscure.  Though Cheri and Joseph APPEAR to be following a conventional
routine, that they chose to attend mass together (any Catholic church would
have scheduled several masses on Sunday morning) and then had breakfast at
Sandy's Restaurant, when The Hardman Center was just around the corner from
their house, tells us they weren't sleepwalking through their lives together. 
Cheri had just visited her fiance in San Francisco the previous weekend, having
most likely traveled there with his parents.  Though Cheri had no plans to get
married in the immediate future, the prospect of living his life without his
daughter in the house, having separated from his wife, and with his son in the
Navy, had to be something Joseph Bates thought about every day.

"She always thought she was overweight."  Cheri Bates was NOT overweight or
anything close to it, but like many attractive young women, she was preoccupied
with her weight.  We know she cooked and ate supper before leaving the house
that afternoon.  We can reasonably assume she ate a normal-sized supper and not
a Thanksgiving Day meal.  She was murdered more than 5 hours after leaving the
house, and yet her stomach still contained 4 ounces of that supper when she was
autopsied.

I've had people email me that they can't believe her killer would use Cheri's
ID to take out books, since it would be too "risky" for an assailant who had
disabled her car and slashed her throat in a pitch dark alley.  I've had people
insist that Cheri could have gone to the library intent on making progress on
her term paper, and thus kept to herself, and that explains why she didn't talk
to anyone.

What I haven't had, at least up until now, is anyone tell me they can explain
the contents of Cheri Bates's stomach.  There have been posters on ZKF
suggesting Cheri may have left the library that night, gone to a nearby diner
(diners open after 9pm are scarce as hen's teeth) and eaten ADDITIONAL ROAST
BEEF AND VEGETABLES to supplement what she'd had back at her house.  Since
there are no eyewitnesses or other factual details to back up this suggestion,
I tend not to take it seriously.

"I was amazed at the number of kids from other schools that knew her." 
According to Zodiac message board posters and administrators, Cheri Bates spent
2 hours and 40 minutes inside The RCC Library that night, and then another 1
hour and 30 minutes out in front of the building, and none of her KNOWN friends
who were inside the library recalls seeing her.  We've already seen that the
Mexican-American student who spotted Cheri in front of the library at 5:30pm
knew who she was, though he didn't actually say anything to her.  Cheri was
noticed by staff and customers in Sandy's Restaurant that morning, her car was
spotted by friends outside her house at 4:30pm, she was noticed by her girl
friend driving on Magnolia at 6:10pm, and by the March Air Force Base man in
the alley at 6:15pm, even though he didn't know who she was.

If you made a list of every student at RCC that fall, Cheri Bates would
probably be the last person who could spend 4 hours and 15 minutes ON CAMPUS
without being noticed, both because of how she looked and who she was.

Here's Mike Butterfield on the subject of Ray Grant in The Crackpot Files:

NNoo rreessppoonnssiibbllee ppeerrssoonn wwoouulldd aacctt aass GGrraanntt hhaass,, aanndd hhiiss bbeehhaavviioorr ddeemmoonnssttrraatteess aann
aabbssoolluuttee ddiissrreeggaarrdd ffoorr tthhee vviiccttiimmss,, tthheeiirr ffaammiilliieess,, tthhee iinnvveessttiiggaattoorrss,, tthhee
ppuubblliicc,, tthhee ttrruutthh,, aanndd YYOOUU..

Gee, Mike, I'm sorry you feel that way.  But if we're talking about responsible
people, here's a list of Zodiac websites that have shown an absolute disregard
for the victims and their families:

ZKF, ZK.com, ZKS

I don't mean to be harsh here, because I think even Mike Butterfield, on some
level, really wants this case to be solved.  I read about Mike's frustration in
dealing with Riverside PD's preconceptions, and I feel his pain.

But when I hear even good, reasonable people like Morf13 talking recently about
who Cheri Bates would have walked down that alley with just before she was
murdered, I throw up my hands.

Cheri Bates never made it as far as the library, guys.

It's what the 65 eyewitnesses say.

It's what her stomach says.

And if she HAD been in the library, she'd have talked to people and they'd have
noticed her.

That's what all her friends say, in addition to saying she wouldn't have walked
down that alley voluntarily, and wouldn't have left her car with the windows
down and the keys in the ignition and her books and notebook behind.

The more we know about Cheri Bates, the more ridiculous the Zodiac website
version looks.

"But, The Confession Letter says . . ."

Ah, The Confession Letter!  Written by her killer!

What possible motive could HE have for telling us a lie?

Okay, I'll try to calm down and come back to this later.




Yes, reader, I know what you're thinking.  Joseph Bates's account here is
sufficiently different from the standard true crime, raw facts account of that
day, which is itself based on information mostly provided by Riverside PD in
newspaper and magazine stories from the 1960s, that we'll have to re-think the
timeline.

Let's start by clearing up any misconceptions about where Joseph Bates went on
that day.  I suggested, in the main Riverside article on this site, that he
either traveled to Newport Beach (about an hour from Riverside by car) or
Huntington Beach (about an hour and 10-15 minutes from Riverside).

We can now eliminate Huntington Beach as a possibility, since Newport Beach,
Corona Del Mar, and Norco are all in the same general area, an hour's drive
from Riverside.  Joseph Bates went to the beach that Sunday in an area close to
where he worked, The Corona Naval Ordnance Laboratory.  The article says that
he left with a friend, unspecified gender, so it's possible he went to the
beach with a lady friend, or he may have gone with a male friend expecting to
socialize when they got to the beach.

This account has Cheri Bates studying at home all day.  I speculated in the
main article that she did housework during the day on Sunday, since she didn't
notice her bibliography was missing until 5:30pm, when she called her friend
Donna.  Of course, Cheri's term paper would have been for a single course, and
a college student typically takes several courses in a given term.  So it's
conceivable that Cheri did work for her other courses, particularly if she had
reading to do (which is basically what a college student does: read).

Again, if we consider that Cheri had spent the previous weekend traveling to
San Francisco, almost certainly in the company of her fiance's parents, it's
reasonable to assume she was a little behind on her coursework, so maybe she
spent most of that Sunday in her house reading.

The major discrepancy in this timeline from the previous ones is that Joseph
Bates did NOT return home circa 5pm; instead, he called his own house, and the
line was busy.  When he called 15 minutes later, the line was still busy.  He
then went home and Cheri was gone.  I have to assume the narrative remained the
same from Joseph's standpoint: he read the note Cheri left for him (DAD-WENT TO
RCC LIBRARY), took a call from Stephanie, wrote a note to Cheri (most likely
mentioning Stephanie's call and telling her where he was), and went right back
out again.

The first, most obvious question is whether Cheri was actually talking to
anyone between 5pm and 5:15pm.  A busy line means that that particular number
is engaged, but it doesn't mean that Cheri was necessarily at the house making
an outgoing call.  It's possible that Stephanie, who called when Joseph
returned to the house after 5:15pm, attempted to call Cheri at her house
several times between 5pm and 5:15pm, and Joseph just happened to call twice,
15 minutes apart, when Stephanie had already engaged the line, thus getting a
busy signal.

If Cheri WAS still at the house, it seems unlikely that her own outgoing call
was to Stephanie, since she reported the call at 3:45pm and would likely have
mentioned a later call if she'd talked to Cheri later.

The other possibility is that the call to Donna, presumed to have been made at
5:30pm, actually came 15 minutes or more earlier, and was made from the house
rather than the library.  This is also difficult to reconcile with what we
know.  Cheri asked if Donna had seen her bibliography, if Cheri had somehow
left it at the bank where they both worked.  Since Donna had not seen it, if
Cheri was back at her house when she talked to Donna, she would likely have
looked for it in her bedroom, where she did her studying.  In other words,
Cheri would have had no reason to drive to the library, then drive back to the
house, and then back to the library again in time to be seen by the two
witnesses.  The only way the witness accounts can be reconciled is if Cheri
originally drove to the library assuming she had the bibliography, then found
out she didn't, then called Donna from a pay phone outside the library and was
told Donna hadn't seen it, then drove back to her own house to look for the
bibliography, and then drove back toward RCC in time to be seen by the two
witnesses.

In other words, in the absence of any other account, we have to assume that the
teenaged Stephanie kept calling Cheri's house between 5pm and 5:15pm, and
Joseph just happened to call a couple times when Stephanie had already engaged
the line, and then when Joseph returned to the house himself the phone rang--
and it was Stephanie, of all people.

But if Cheri DIDN'T speak to Stephanie, and the busy signals were because
Stephanie was already calling the house when Joseph tried calling, that still
means Cheri had to have left the house by 5pm or so, because otherwise she'd
have answered Stephanie's call to the house.  Allowing a few minutes leeway,
Cheri could have left the house a few minutes after 5pm, made the 10-15 minute
drive to RCC by 5:15pm or even 5:20pm, been out in front of the library at 5:
30pm in time to be seen by the Mexican-American student, then called Donna from
a pay phone outside the library, and so forth.

Could some third party, other than Stephanie or Donna, have spoken on the phone
to Cheri that afternoon between 5pm and 5:15pm?  If so, then we have to assume
that person has kept quiet about it for well over 4 decades.  I can just hear a
Zodiac message board poster muttering to himself, "Well, if it was her killer
who called her, he probably wouldn't say anything about it."  If it was her
killer who called her, then we still have all the logistical issues we had
before, with her not being seen by anyone that evening, and her stomach
contents not making sense, and the state her car was left in being completely
uncharacteristic of her.  Plus we have the additional problem that her killer
was familiar enough to keep her on the phone for 15 minutes.  All the men in
Cheri's immediate social circle would have been checked out thoroughly by
Riverside PD, including being checked for scratches the day after her murder. 
If it was just some guy who called unexpectedly and creeped her out, she'd be
that much less likely to go willingly with him later that evening.

If Cheri's killer called her at 5pm that afternoon, then we'll have another
case of the typical Zodiac website "insight": an off-the-wall hypothesis that
can't be proven or disproven, for which there's no direct evidence, and which
has the further advantage of leading us absolutely nowhere.

In short, I think the most likely scenario is that Stephanie began calling
Cheri's house shortly after Cheri left, circa 5pm or so, and the two times
Joseph Bates called, circa 5pm and 5:15pm, he got a busy signal because
Stephanie had just called the same number and was listening to the phone ring. 
Granted, this assumes a coincidence, but it's backed up by Stephanie calling
again just as Joseph Bates got to the house after 5:15pm.  As to why Joseph
wouldn't have asked Stephanie if she'd called between 5pm and 5:15pm, he'd have
assumed that Cheri was actually talking to someone on the phone, and had left
just before he got there.  This was 1966, in the days before home answering
machines and voice mail.  Joseph probably told Stephanie that he'd just arrived
home when the phone rang, so there was no reason for her to mention that she'd
been calling for the past 15 minutes.

The advantage to assuming that Stephanie made those calls, thus causing
Joseph's busy signal, is that it fits all the other facts as we know them.  




"She always studied in her room, not at school."  Well, we do have at least one
photo, the one on the very next page of this article, of Cheri studying in The
RCC Library Annex.  One must assume, whether Cheri found her bibliography or
not, that she would have had to spend a decent amount of time in the library
that night, since she was writing a term paper for a class with other students
also writing term papers on the same or on a related subject.  Even if her
class was American History, the course material would still have concentrated
on specific areas covered by the teacher, so there would have been a demand for
books on certain subjects.  One strong memory I have from my college years was
having to wait for reference books (which is to say, books you couldn't check
out) at the Hillman Library at Pitt ; you would literally check books out for
an hour, leaving your student ID at the desk as collateral.  You would then do
your reading and note-taking right there in the building.

"Joseph went back to his friend's house for dinner."  It may seem as if I'm
paying too much attention to what Joseph Bates was doing that day, but what his
daughter did was clearly related to his own activities, even in absentia. 
Since Joseph did not return home until after midnight, and his friend clearly
lived reasonably close right there in Riverside, we can speculate that, after
having dinner at his friend's house, they likely watched TV that evening, with
Joseph probably expecting his daughter to call or come over at some point.

This account has Cheri asking Stephanie Gutman to go to The RCC Library "to
pick up a few books".  I've seen other citations that say, instead, "to pick up
a few books and do some studying."  Again, Cheri may not have intended to spend
the entire evening at The RCC Library, but I think it's reasonably safe to say,
particularly since she ate dinner just prior to leaving the house, that she
expected to be at the library for at least an hour or so.

A lone male librarian thought he MIGHT have seen Cheri in the library that
night, or it may have been some other night.  If Cheri Bates had been in the
library that night, numerous friends would have noticed her, and Cheri herself
would have talked to people.  If Cheri's NOT being in the library that night
can be considered The Ray Grant Theory About Cheri Bates, I'll put it up
against The Theory of Evolution.  I'm sorry, Zodiac hobbyists--it's simply not
in dispute.  She wasn't there.

The problem with NOT assuming Cheri went back home (circa 5:30pm-6pm) in an
attempt to find her bibliography, after being seen outside the library by the
Mexican-American student who knew who she was at 5:30pm, and then calling her
friend Donna from a pay phone outside the library, is twofold: 1, you have
about 40 minutes to account for (5:30pm-6:10pm) when Cheri wasn't seen by
anyone; and 2, you still have to explain how Cheri could be driving TOWARD the
library at 6:10pm when she was AT the library at 5:30pm.




Joseph Bates returned to the house around midnight and noticed the note he'd
left for Cheri--this article says the notes were left ON THE KITCHEN TABLE,
rather than being TAPED TO THE REFRIGERATOR DOOR--was undisturbed.  As I've
said, if Cheri returned to the house to look for her missing bibliography,
since she did all her studying in her bedroom, she would likely have walked in
the front door and walked straight to her bedroom without checking the
kitchen.  There would have been no reason, absent looking at her dad's note, to
believe he'd returned since she left an hour earlier (since she was seen on
Magnolia driving TOWARD RCC at 6:10pm, and the drive to RCC was 10-15 minutes,
and Stephanie's call to the house circa 5pm went unanswered), so she then
likely would have walked from the bedroom to the front door, particularly if
she'd been able to locate the missing bibliography in her search.

Here's something else to think about.  I've always regretted that Joseph Bates
didn't return to his house until around midnight, because it means Cheri
couldn't have called him from the library between 9pm and 10:30pm if she really
DID leave the building and find that her car wouldn't start.  Even if she
dialed the number, she couldn't have gotten him on the phone, and there were no
answering machines in 1966.

However, this account says that Joseph spent the day with a friend, and was at
the friend's house that evening.  Cheri must have known who he left for the
beach with, and if she had called her house and not gotten an answer, the next
logical place to call would have been the friend's house.  That Cheri Bates
DIDN'T call the friend's house that evening is yet another indication that she
was NEVER outside the library under her own power after 9pm that night.  It is
impossible to believe that she wouldn't have called her father as soon as she
found her car wouldn't start, and if she didn't get an answer at her own house,
she would certainly have attempted to call the friend's house.

What's that, you say?  Maybe the friend's number was unlisted?  Maybe it was,
but in 1966 unlisted numbers were very much the exception, because you had to
ask the phone company not to list your number and pay for the privilege of
being unlisted.  Most people's numbers were listed in their local phone
directories, and pay phones invariably were stocked with the local phone
directory.    



"Cheri was identified by papers in her bag purse which was found under her
body."

Let's think about this detail for a moment.  Mike Kelleher and Morf13 have
mentioned their uncertainty about where this timeline is headed.  I will
probably be posting TENTATIVE timelines for both Riverside and Lake Herman Road
in the next week, just to give some semblance of where I'm going with this and
what form the final product will take.  I'm guessing I'll list times and events
on the timeline articles, and arrange the material on the "walking through the
possibilities" articles so it's more coherent.  It's a little hard to be
coherent when you're still trying to work things out, but I do have an idea
where I'm headed generally.

Cheri Bates had a large carry-all style purse which was found under her body. 
The first thing that strikes me is the incongruity of her taking this purse
down the alley with her when she left her library books and notebook in her
car.  If she was going down the alley so the person she was with could drive
her home, wouldn't she logically have left everything back at the car so he
could then drive back up the alley and she could then retrieve her materials
from her own car?  This would seem to be an either-or; either leave everything
in the car and then retrieve it when you were driven back up to Terracina, or
take everything with you.  Leaving the windows down would suggest that she
expected to be back up at the car momentarily.  But since she was terrified of
the dark, even if she felt comfortable with her companion, why not just stay at
the car while he went and got his?

The Confession Letter says that the killer offered Cheri a ride home, in which
case we would expect her to roll up her windows, take the keys, put the books
and notebook in her oversized bag, and lock the doors.  Instead, the details of
her death don't fit any logical scenario.  Her personal effects are left in a
disorganized state, very much as if she wasn't in control of them.  We would
fully expect the crime scene to be chaotic, if her killer suddenly turned on
her.  But EVERYTHING was chaotic--her crime scene, her car, her schedule.

Cheri Bates was interrupted in the middle of the afternoon, and given no chance
to tidy up her effects.  If she was driving on a warm afternoon, we can expect
that her windows would be down, the doors unlocked, and obviously the keys in
the ignition.  If someone accosted her just as she parked, the condition of her
car is consistent with that.  Since the car was found parked 75 yards east of
the alley where she was found, it's entirely possible that she was never near
the car after the abduction, that her killer(s) took her back and walked her
down the alley without passing her VW.

If Cheri Bates had her throat slashed by three swipes of a small-bladed knife,
and if in the process of being attacked, she was  able to pull the killer's
Timex watch off her wrist, and the ground was churned up like a freshly plowed
field . . . what are the chances her bag would be found directly under her
body?  I'm not discounting it as a possibility, but it strikes me that a
slashing attacker will be moving in in wide swaths toward the victim, and that
the victim's thrashing and yanking the watch off and trying desperately to get
away will result in a reasonable amount of centrifugal movement.  And yet, the
two objects are found in close proximity, the watch ten feet away and the bag
underneath her.  I honestly don't think it's possible to choreograph an attack
in hindsight, but it does strike me as odd that, with all the energy of that
attack and Cheri's athletic defense, with the attacker's hair found stuck to
her palms in blood, that everything ended up in one place.  If the attack were
a weather event, it might best be described as a Microburst.  If I may
paraphrase Aquiman from ZKF: I'm willing to buy the bag being found under her,
OR the watch landing nearby; BOTH objects ending up in the same place looks a
little staged, under the circumstances.

"The driveway was so churned up, it looked like a tractor had been over the
ground."

"The girl, who was very athletic, put up a terrific struggle."

I put it to the reader that, if you think carefully about those two statements,
they don't make any sense.

If you take The Confession Letter at face value, Cheri Bates is approached at
her car by an acquaintance from her past (perhaps from Ramona High School) who
has, unbeknownst to her, disabled the engine while she was inside the library. 
Cheri exits the library, where no one has noticed her for 2 hours and 40
minutes, and then finds that her car won't start, so she doesn't call her dad
or any of her friends from a nearby pay phone.  Instead, she chooses to accept
the offer of a ride from a guy whose advances years ago she brushed off, and,
after a wait of 1 hour and 30 minutes (don't ask me to explain that one--the
car wouldn't start, she doesn't call anyone, no one sees her outside, and she
doesn't walk away from the car with her stalker until 90 minutes later), she
finally accepts the offer of a ride.

She's left her car with the windows down and the keys in the ignition, and with
her books and notebook left behind, but takes her big purse.  The killer and
victim walk 75 yards to the west and start down the alleyway between derelict
houses.  It's pitch dark, and her friends say Cheri is terrified of the dark. 
ABRUPTLY, after telling her that it's time for her to die, her companion turns
on her and begins slashing her face.  Cheri had superficial cuts on her face
which presumably predated the slashes to her throat.

And what does Cheri do?

She stands her ground and begins hand-to-hand combat with her attacker.

Remember what I said a moment ago about how everything pertaining to the attack
was localized?

Cheri Bates is suddenly assaulted in a pitch dark place that figured to terrify
her, with a young man who had already creeped her out in the years prior. 
Would her first instinct be to fight with him, or to run?

There were no signs of a struggle on the path leading to the murder scene; all
the signs were in the immediate vicinity of her body.  If the ground was
churned-up, that could only be because Cheri and her attacker were standing in
the same place and spinning their wheels.  That her attacker's hair was stuck
in blood to her palms is additional evidence that she was grappling with him at
close quarters.

So we know WHAT she did; what we don't know is WHY.

Cheri Bates chooses, in a terrifying, pitch dark place, with an attacker who
has turned on her suddenly, and whose initial knife thrusts do not inflict
mortal damage, to stand her ground and fight.  She pulls his hair out and yanks
his wrist watch off.

The one thing she DOESN'T do is run.

If a 5' 3", 107-pound, 18 year-old female doesn't run in that situation, there
are only two possibilities: 1, she's a martial arts enthusiast (which we know
Cheri wasn't), or 2, running just wasn't an option.

Since Cheri's body showed no obvious signs of her having been bound in any way,
and she wasn't physically disabled, the most likely explanation for her lack of
mobility was that there was more than one attacker.

But wait, you say: there's no direct evidence of more than one attacker.

Well, there were no footprints in the immediate vicinity of the attack because
the ground was torn up, so we can't learn from that.  And not ONE, but TWO
people were missing from the Riverside PD reenactment at the library: a bearded
stocky man in his 20s, and a woman, and those two people were seen talking to
each other inside the building.

I've pointed this out already, but I'll mention it again.  Riverside PD asked
the FBI to compare the latents left on Cheri's car with those from Presidio
Heights in a memo from October 1969, and almost immediately afterward, they
announced that the Bates murder was NOT a Zodiac crime, and that they would
pursue their local suspect, despite their initial enthusiasm about a possible
Zodiac involvement.

The only thing we can conclude from their sudden turnabout on the Zodiac link
is that the Bates latents did not match those from Presidio Heights.  But that
doesn't mean the Zodiac wasn't involved in both murders; it only means that the
person who left the prints on the Bates car was a different person from the one
who left the prints on Paul Stine's cab.  If Cheri Bates was abducted, as I
think she was, the abduction would have been a lot easier to pull off if two
people were involved.

So, if the Riverside murder is a Zodiac crime . . . the Zodiac is at least two
people.

Cheri Bates's killer managed, somehow, to slash her throat three times with a
short-bladed knife in a pitch dark alley, nearly decapitating her.  All her
other wounds were incidental.  if you assume her attacker was alone, the
concentration of his target areas, particularly under the circumstances, is
astounding.  She yanked off his wrist watch and ripped his hair out, and his
attacks were completely focused on cutting her head off.

Put those two incongruities together:

1, a terrified victim who doesn't flee; and

2, an assailant who attacks very suddenly and concentrates that attack on one
part of her body with great accuracy, even though the victim is ripping his
wrist watch off and pulling his hair out in pitch darkness while he focuses
entirely on her throat.

The circumstances of her death are consistent with Cheri Bates being assaulted
by at least two people, one of whom probably held her while the other attacked
with a knife.  I'll admit that's a very tricky proposition in a dark alleyway,
and it's clear that Cheri still tried to fight her assailants off, but she was
overpowered and eventually subdued and died very quickly, and her body was laid
on top of her purse, perhaps to make sure that the identifying papers in her
purse were found with her.

Again, I fully expect hobbyists on Zodiac websites to continue to insist that
Cheri Bates spent 2 hours and 40 minutes inside the library that night, and
then another 1 hour and 30 minutes out in front of the library at her car, and
then walked down that alleyway with a single assailant and was killed in a
struggle where she made absolutely no attempt to escape from a killer who was
Hell-bent on cutting her head off.

As Ed Neil once said, Ray Grant has a problem with the FACTS.

Especially the FACTS that have been accepted for 46 years--the ones that don't
make any sense.




The Timex wrist watch was found 10 feet from Cheri Bates's dead body.  I've
already said it's incongruous that in such a violent struggle, two objects were
found, one under the body (her oversized handbag), and the other only 10 feet
from the body.  One would think that, in a desperate fight to the death where
the victim yanked a watch off her assailant's wrist, and had his hair stuck to
the palms of her hands in blood, at least one of those two objects would be
further from the body.

I'm 6' 1".  If I lie down on the ground and stretch my arms out in front of me,
with my feet touching the body, I could almost reach the Timex on the ground. 
Cheri Bates is supposed to have yanked that Timex off the killer's wrist with
such force that the leather band broke up at the watch face.

I've already mentioned the John Cameron Swayze commercials in my physical
books.  If the reader will click on TZMS 1993, at some point I talk in detail
about how those live commercials were staged and broadcast.  The Timex watch
took a licking and kept on ticking, no matter what it was strapped to.  They
used airplane propellers, fan blades, washing machine agitators, and anything
else that promised to give the watch a rough ride.  The company prided itself
on how durable that watch was, and yet the Timex found ten feet from Cheri
Bates's body not only was stopped, the band broke.

Cheri Bates fights for her life, rips a leather band off her attacker's wrist
and sends the attached watch flying . . . and it travels 10 feet.  Okay, so
maybe it went straight up in the air and just landed nearby?

But we know the killer had a flashlight, because he cut the middle wire from
the distributor of her engine.  6:20pm sounds a bit early for it to get dark on
October 30th, but Eastern Standard Time had returned that morning at 2:00am, so
at 6:20pm that night . . . it was "really" 7:20pm.

If Cheri Bates's killer had a flashlight, why couldn't he find the Timex?  It
was only 10 feet from the body, and would have glinted in the light,
particularly against the background of the bright gravel.








Again, Cheri's palms actually contained mitochondrial DNA, presumably from her
killer.

The account of the Mexican-American student here is not accurate, assuming the
other accounts of him are correct.  He did not see her INSIDE the library but
out in front of the library, and he saw her there circa 5:30pm, not just prior
to the library reopening at 6pm.  Cheri could not have been near the library at
6pm because she was seen driving TOWARD the library on Magnolia at 6:10pm. 
Since she was seen driving up an alley a block from the library at 6:15pm, we
have to assume that the two sightings were about 5 minutes driving time apart. 
So if Cheri was seen driving toward the library on Magnolia at 6:10pm, more
than 5 minutes from the library (with still another block to drive) she could
not possibly have walked INTO the library at 6pm, unless it was her intention
to immediately run back out, jump in her car, drive back out along Magnolia,
and then somehow turn the car around in time for her girl friend to see her--
which seems unlikely.

The Mexican-American student DID confirm that he saw Cheri writing in her blue
spiral notebook, which was the same notepad later found in her car the next
morning.  This means that Cheri had to have parked her car prior to the
sighting at 5:30pm, and then taken the notepad with her to wait outside the
library.  In other words, she did not leave the notepad in her car.  So, if she
walked voluntarily away from her car with her killer later that night, carrying
a large bag with papers identifying her inside it, why wouldn't she at least
have taken the notepad with her?  We know Cheri was moving around under her own
power at 5:30pm, since she was alone, and she was writing in her notebook.  Why
would she leave the notebook behind, along with the books she'd taken out, to
walk the distance of almost a football field, while still taking a big handbag
with other papers inside it?  Cheri Bates was a methodical person, and her
choices that night seem random. 



There's been speculation on ZK.com that Cheri left her car in the state it was
in so that a mechanic could come by the next morning to work on the car.  This
assumes that Cheri could have called a mechanic after 9pm that night.  Maybe
she could have called a service station, but the mechanic would not have been
available at that time of night.  In any case, she'd have called her dad or a
friend before she did that.

But the detail about the mechanic does point out that the car had been worked
on that week.  Remember, the engine of a VW Beetle is in the BACK of the car,
but the greasy prints were left in the FRONT of the car, so whoever cut that
wire left a palm print on the passenger seat while doing something that had
nothing to do with the engine--probably looking for her handbag with the school
ID.

In any case, the speculation on ZK.com was that the greasy prints may have been
left by the mechanic, which is not true--Riverside PD went to the trouble of
eliminating his prints.  The greasy prints on the door and on the front seat
where left by whoever cut the wire.  So why would he need to be groping around
under the front seat?

Cheri's killer couldn't have disabled the engine while she was in the library,
because she was never in the library.  If she was abducted after she parked on
Terracina, which is where all the evidence points, then the killer cut the
distributor wire NOT to keep Cheri from driving away, since she'd already been
abducted at that point.  He cut the distributor wire TO PUT CHERI IN THE
LIBRARY.

Here's what puts Cheri IN THE LIBRARY: the checked-out books and the
distributor wire.

If there are books checked out on her student ID, SHE MUST HAVE CHECKED THEM
OUT.

If the distributor wire was cut, IT MUST HAVE BEEN CUT WHILE SHE WAS IN THE
LIBRARY.

So if I've just abducted a victim, I can cover up the abduction by seeming to
place her in the library by checking out books on her card and cutting the
distributor wire in her engine.

When the police saw the library books, they must have said to themselves,
"Okay, she must have been in the library at some point."

When the police noticed that the distributor wire was cut, they must have said,
"Okay, obviously she drove to the library with an intact distributor wire.  And
she didn't cut her own distributor wire.  So her killer must have cut the wire
so that when she came out and tried to drive away, she couldn't."

Here's the interesting thing: RPD would have noticed the cut distributor wire
no later than whatever time on Monday they decided to move her car back to
headquarters, and found the engine wouldn't start, assuming one of their techs
didn't notice it while they were looking the car over.  So, probably within the
first 24 hours after the murder, they knew that someone, and most likely her
killer, had cut that wire.

What they wouldn't have known was WHEN the wire was cut.  An estimated time for
the murder was tentatively set while police were still processing the crime
scene, and RPD would have known that the library had closed at 9pm, but they
wouldn't have had much of a timeline to work with even after interviewing 75
witnesses in the first 24 hours.

If there is one fundamental blind spot area in the treatment of the Bates
murder by ALL the Zodiac websites, it's this:

Wait, the reader thinks I'm going to mention the library reconstruction or her
stomach contents.

No.  Those are HUGE blind spots, but something happened in the course of the
investigation before the reenactment even happened, and NO ONE noticed the
stomach contents until I pointed them out just in the past year.

There's something a lot more basic that police had to deal with in the first
few days after the murder.

They had no idea where Cheri Bates was.

Riverside PD put notices in the newspapers for anyone who saw Cheri Bates that
evening to come forward.

And no one did.

People like Morf think I'm hijacking the Bates investigation because I keep on
harping on those 65 eyewitnesses from the library reenactment.

But it's not just 65 eyewitnesses.

It's the entire population of Riverside, California.

Cheri Bates wasn't seen by anyone, anywhere.  Period.

The entire focus of the investigation, for the first two weeks, was locating
Cheri Bates.

And no one could.

They knew where she was at 6:15pm.  They knew where she was at 6:30am the next
morning.

In between, nothing.

I've told this story before, but it illustrates what I'm saying here so I'll
repeat it.  When I was writing my Zodiac novel back in 2001, my editor Laurie
Baker called me up while she was reading the manuscript.  She was laughing
hysterically.  "Laurie, I'm not THAT funny," I reminded her.  "You've got to
take out this part about the reenactment in Riverside," she guffawed.  "No
one's going to believe a big city police force would reconstruct a co-ed
murder."  "What do you mean?  That's exactly what happened in real life!"  She
abruptly stopped laughing.  "You're KIDDING!"

Nope.  Riverside PD conducted a reconstruction of the night of the murder on
Sunday, November 13, 1966, in real time, with everyone wearing the same clothes
they wore, sitting in the same seats, parking in the same spaces, and so
forth.  Hobbyists on Zodiac websites have never taken that exercise seriously,
and they've completely ignored the results for reasons I'll touch on in a
moment, but I want to focus on the reason the police actually did the
reconstruction in the first place.

They did the reconstruction because they couldn't locate Cheri Bates after 6:
15pm, because two weeks had gone by and no one had come forward with any
information about her, and they were desperate.

Doing a reconstruction on that scale is unheard-of.

Researchers who have been actively involved in the Zodiac investigation know
how hard it is to get the police to follow up on anything.  I've been lucky
enough to get police personnel to cooperate with me at times, but more often
than not, I've run into brick walls, even when the investigators in question
didn't need to actually do anything to help me.  Kelly Carroll of SFPD blocking
me from doing a GPR scan on Clay Street in 2000, even when I was paying for it,
just because he didn't want me to find out what I wanted to know, is just one
example of that.  He's not even on the force any more.

The fact that Riverside PD even did that reconstruction, the very fact that
they did the most elaborate thing they could do to jog the memories of the
people in that building, is a testament to the absence of Cheri Josephine Bates
from The RCC Library that night.

And the reconstruction turned up absolutely nothing.

But the hobbyists on Zodiac websites?  They know Cheri Bates most definitely
WAS there that night!

There are the books, after all; you can't check a book out unless it's your
ID.  There were no student IDs with photos back then, but that's a minor point.

There's the severed distributor wire; you can't cut a wire unless the car
owner's in the library.

Plus, THE KILLER HIMSELF says she was in the library in The Confession Letter.

They may have a point there.  If I'm going to start doubting what THE KILLER
HIMSELF is telling us, maybe it's time to walk away?

Speaking of The Confession Letter, note the timing of that letter.  It is
written a month after the murder, and a full two weeks and two days after the
reconstruction.  The progress of the investigation would have been covered in
significant detail in the newspapers--the Bates murder was the biggest story in
Riverside.  The writer of the letter, who was Cheri Bates's killer after all,
would thus be aware of two things:

1, what ACTUALLY happened (since he was the killer); and

2, what THE POLICE THOUGHT had happened.

There's a tendency, in a situation such as this, to assume that the police held
cards that the killer was unaware of.  But that's not true.  The only card the
police would hold would be the extent of their own knowledge.  That they had
staged a reenactment would pretty much demonstrate that they had no idea what
had happened to Cheri Bates that night, beyond what was obvious at the crime
scene.

What am I getting at, here?

Cheri Bates had to be abducted that afternoon, because she wasn't seen after 6:
15pm.  Whoever abducted her had access to her student ID.  We know that books
were charged out on her card, and that no staff member recalls EITHER seeing
Cheri or using her ID to check out books.  So we're stuck with one of two
possibilities: either Cheri managed somehow to enter the library, use the card
catalogue, make notes, look for books, and then charge those books out, all
without anyone noticing her . . . or someone else used her card to charge out
books, without the staff member noticing that a student ID that said CHERI
BATES was being used.  Which is more likely?  I don't even think that's a
serious question.  6600 MMiinnuutteess just did a story on students taking the SAT for
other students, in situations where photo IDs were used and even checked by the
test proctors, and the ringers were never noticed.  Identity theft happens
every day.  What's so hard to believe about a non-photo ID being used
successfully by someone who's willing to kill?

So much for the checked-out books proving anything.

But the killer doesn't mention the books in The Confession Letter.  He does
mention cutting the wire, which has the advantage of connecting him to the
murder, in addition to seeming to place Cheri in the library.

I have to be honest here and say I don't think it's the library books that
convinces people.

I don't think the cut wire is what cuts it for people.

I think people believe Cheri Bates was in the library for 2 hours and 40
minutes, and then outside in front of the library for 1 hour and 30 minutes,
because that's what The Confession Letter says.

It's that simple.

When people disappear, it creates a void.  When Judge Crater, or Amelia
Earhart, or Jimmie Hoffa disappear without a trace, a vacuum takes the place of
their outlines in the world, and nature abhors a vacuum.

Cheri Bates disappeared without a trace at 6:15pm that afternoon.  No one knows
what happened to her.  Her body suddenly showed up in an alley the next
morning.  Exactly what happened in between those times is open to speculation. 
And a full month after the murder, her killer would have known that the police
and newspapers had no theories and no suspects.

Her killer(s) had had the foresight to check the books out with her student ID,
and to cut the middle wire of the distributor, and to stage her murder so it
looked like a crime of passion.

The authorities didn't know what happened, so the killer sent them the version
he preferred them to believe.

I strongly suspect that, had the police advanced the theory that Cheri must
have been abducted, since no one saw her after 6:15pm despite the presence of
friends in the library, and since her stomach contents were consistent with her
having been kidnapped before being murdered, The Confession Letter would never
have been sent.  Or, at the very least, it would have been sent without
including any details about the crime itself. 

One of the great ironies of the Zodiac investigation is that websites like ZKF
have harped on the importance of forensic links and witness accounts, and
scoffed at theories based on circumstantial evidence.

in the Cheri Bates murder, we have an autopsy (forensics) which tells us the
victim was abducted, and 65 eyewitnesses who all say the same thing--that she
wasn't inside the library, outside the library, or anywhere else to be seen
that night.

instead, supposedly dedicated researchers believe the killer's account, which
is in conflict with all the other witnesses, and which has the victim behaving
in a way that was completely uncharacteristic of her.

As the Zodiologist website has pointed out (note that I give credit where
credit is due): Why on Earth would a killer write a letter to the police and
newspapers WHICH POINTS THEM IN HIS OWN DIRECTION?

"I'm a local boy, I killed Cheri Bates because she gave me the brush-off, just
check her impressive list of Spurned Suitors and I'm sure I'll stick out like a
sore thumb."

And the punchline was: no one fit that description.  "Bob Barnett" was the
closest Riverside PD could get to the profile, and even there, they had to make
up half the list of circumstantial links and bribe jailhouse snitches to make
it plausible.  As Cheri Bates's fiance said, RPD wasted 30 years chasing
someone they never should have investigated in the first place.

And now the administrator of a Zodiac website is picking new suspects out of
her high school yearbook.
   



I apparently didn't keep or didn't originally download the pages on Cheri's
autopsy, but I will mention some portions of that autopsy that DON'T concern
her stomach contents.  I can hear the reader muttering to himself, "Wait just a
minute there!  Ray Grant discussing the Cheri Bates autopsy, and he's NOT going
to talk about what was in her stomach?  That's all he EVER talks about!"

Well, Cheri Bates's stomach contents tell us she was abducted sometime that
afternoon, because being in fear of her life is the only thing that could have
kept her stomach from emptying itself over a 5 1/2 hour period.  If she left
her house at 5pm, and she was abducted at 6:20pm, that means her stomach
already had 1 hour and 20 minutes to digest her supper.  For an energetic 18-
year-old with a very high metabolism, that would have sufficed to process
something like 2/3 of what she ate (assuming a teenager would be on the short
end of the 2-4 hour normal digestion rate).  If she was left with 4 ounces of
food, that means she must have eaten about 12 ounces at supper, right? 
However, we have to assume that digestion would not have been completely halted
no matter how intense her mental state was.  More likely, Cheri ate 16-18
ounces of food at supper, had digested roughly half of that by the time she was
kidnapped, and then very slowly processed what was left in her agitated state,
until she was murdered, leaving about 4 ounces.

By the way, there is nothing even remotely unusual about the above calculation.

Medical examiners have pointed out, in textbooks and true crime accounts, that
the timing of digestion very often trips up killers who were not aware of its
predictability.  There's a case involving a traveling salesman who had dinner
with his family on Friday night, then murdered his wife and children and
arranged their bodies to look as if an intruder had killed them.  He then left
the house, traveled to a convention where he was seen by people he assumed
would provide an alibi for him, then returned on Sunday night and called the
police.  Since the salesman had no apparent reason to kill his family, the
police believed his story that he had left late Friday evening and returned to
find them dead . . . until their stomachs were examined and found to still be
full of Friday night's dinner.  The victims had to have been killed almost
immediately after they ate.  The salesman tried adjusting forward the time when
he left the house, but his story was proven false by the forensics; he'd had to
have left immediately after supper for his story to be true, and it was too
late to change it.

Medical examiners also attest to the frequency of this phenomenon in serial
murder cases, where the killer abducts his victims before killing them.  It is
not atypical to autopsy a victim whose organ temperatures say she was killed
several hours after she was last seen, and yet for that victim to still have a
significant amount of food in her stomach if she had eaten recently.  This is
true because many serial killers assault their victims sexually before killing
them, in some cases transporting them to a secondary crime scene to do that.  
   

But in the Bates case, it isn't just the stomach contents that suggest her
death was neither sudden nor random.  There are two other odd aspects of her
autopsy that no one has commented on up to now.

The first is that there were only two types of wounds on Cheri Bates's body:
mortal, and superficial.

That seems odd all by itself, but it's worse than that.  Cheri Bates received
THREE gashes to her throat, such that she was nearly decapitated.  Other than
those three swipes, she had superficial cuts on her face, and a stab wound in
her back that wasn't close to being life-threatening.  There was also some
blunt force trauma to her head which, serendipitously, was commented upon by
her killer in The Confession Letter.

That head trauma may be the key to how she was killed.

Let's assume that Cheri Bates is SUDDENLY accosted by her companion.  Somehow,
he manages to make not ONE, not TWO, but THREE very accurate slashes to her
throat, resulting in her carotid artery being severed, her voice box being cut
through, and her head being nearly decapitated.  I just watched the epee
matches at the 2012 Olympic games in London, and I'm not sure even the best
fencers there could have pulled that off.  THREE slashes to Cheri Bates's
throat with a short-bladed knife in pitch darkness, when she was clearly
fighting for her life (yanked off watch, yanked out hair).  He manages to slash
her with great accuracy and murderous efficiency, and she neither flees nor
manages to spoil his aim with her own attacks.

A victim would almost have to lie down on the ground and bare her throat for a
killer to cause that much damage with so few strokes, and without creating
significant injury anywhere else on her body.

I'd say the whole thing doesn't make sense, but I don't want to sound like a
broken record.

Let's go back up that alley and rethink the timeline of the attack.

Remember, I'm assuming here that the conventional wisdom, the ZKF/ZK.com/ZKS
version of events is actually what happened, and that the account given in The
Confession Letter is accurate.

I don't believe that for a moment, but I have to deal with this popular
scenario before I can find the truth.

if Cheri Bates's attacker turned on her suddenly as they reached that point in
the alley where her body was found, what exactly happened?

Before anything else happens, her attacker grabs her and holds her.

We know this is what happened first, assuming everything else, because
otherwise Cheri Bates either runs back up the alley or runs down into the
parking lot below and gets away in the pitch darkness.  She was terrified of
the dark, and she was very athletic.  The only logical reason for her not
running would have been that it wasn't an option.

The other thing to think about is her attacker's state of mind.  HE has to
assume she will run as soon as he turns on her, so he has to move quickly to
make sure she doesn't get away.  Note that he'd gone to the trouble of
immobilizing her car, so it's fair to assume the murder itself was
premeditated.

So Cheri's attacker has her immobilized in a pitch dark alley.

How does he do that?

The killer SAYS, in The Confession Letter, that he began by choking her.  I've
never seen anyone choked to death in person, but I've watched demonstrations of
the concept in films and on television shows.  The assailant doing the choking
invariably has his victim in a very confined area, ofter the corner of a room
or a bathroom shower stall.

Why is that?

It's because someone choking a victim would normally do so by accosting her
from the front, using both hands to circle the throat area.  The problem with
doing that in an open area like the alleyway is that the victim is in a
position to strike back (like yanking his watch off, or yanking his hair out),
and then using that moment to twist away and run.

I GRABBED HER AROUND THE NECK WITH MY HAND OVER HER MOUTH AND MY OTHER HAND
WITH A SMALL KNIFE AT HER THROAT.

Those are the sentences from The Confession Letter pertaining to the attack
itself.  Let's process them in the order the killer has them in the letter:

1. He grabbed her around the neck,

2. with his hand over her mouth, and

3 his other hand with a small knife at her throat.

If you're counting, that's THREE hands so far: one around her neck, one clasped
over her mouth (to prevent her from screaming, presumably, so maybe that's THE
HAND THAT WASN'T THERE?), and the third with a knife at her throat.

As I suggested a minute ago, the killer's primary concern is to hold the victim
there long enough to kill her.  Which means that, if he doesn't kill her
immediately, he has to make absolutely sure she doesn't get away.

That he grabbed her around the neck might make sense, but putting a hand over
her mouth doesn't.  Witnesses in the area heard two screams, both of which
presumably came prior to the slashes to her throat.

But even if you assume that the killer was able to hold her with one hand, what
good would it do for him to put a small knife to her throat in pitch darkness? 
Is he going to convince her not to run by threatening to decapitate her?

The Confession Letter suggests there was some sort of momentary pause between
his grabbing her and the murder itself.  The Confession Letter suggests this
pause was for him to consider a sexual assault.

SHE WENT VERY WILLINGLY.  HER BREAST FELT VERY WARM AND FIRM UNDER MY HANDS. 
BUT ONLY ONE THING WAS ON MY MIND.  MAKING HER PAY FOR THE BRUSH OFFS THAT SHE
HAD GIVEN ME DURING THE YEARS PRIOR.

We know there was absolutely no attempt on the part of the killer to sexually
assault the victim.  That's very unusual in the case of a murder motivated by
sexual rage.  Murders motivated by sexual rage are inherently sloppy.

Here's a familiar example:

_N_i_c_o_l_e_ _B_r_o_w_n_-_S_i_m_p_s_o_n_ _A_u_t_o_p_s_y

Does the reader notice an inherent difference between the Nicole Brown autopsy
and that of Cheri Bates?

The murder of Nicole Brown-Simpson was "hands-on"; the murder of Cheri Bates
was relatively clinical.  As I said, all of Cheri Bates's wounds were either
mortal or superficial.  The killer was clearly focused on cutting her throat,
period.

There is no reason to believe that the killer thought twice about what he was
going to do.  Everything leading up to the murder (cutting the distributor wire
and waiting for the right moment to approach) speaks of premeditation.

There was no need for the killer to pause and think about what he was going to
do.

And I doubt, very seriously, that he did.

SHE DIED HARD.  SHE SQUIRMED AND SHOOK AS I CHOKED HER, AND HER LIPS TWICHED. 
SHE LET OUT A SCREAM ONCE AND I KICKED HER HEAD TO SHUT HER UP.  I PLUNGED THE
KNIFE INTO HER AND IT BROKE.  I THEN FINISHED THE JOB BY CUTTING HER THROAT.

By the way, has anyone on any of the Zodiac websites explained how the killer
knew that the victim's lips twitched?  That alley was pitch dark, and even
though the killer was likely using a flashlight (he'd need one to sever the
distributor wire), it's unlikely he had enough hands left to shine the light in
her face.

What shut the victim up was not the killer kicking her head, but the three
slashes to her throat that cut through her voice box while nearly decapitating
her.  That's how we know that the other wounds came BEFORE the throat wounds. 
A witness in an apartment nearby related that she heard a horrible scream
around 10:30pm that night, followed by another, more muffled, scream, followed
by the sound of an old car starting up a minute later.

The killer did not waste any time leaving, once he'd cut the victim's throat.

The knife did not break off inside the victim.  But it raises another question
about the murder.  If you read the autopsy carefully, you will notice that none
of the wounds other than the throat wound is deeper than 2cm, with the
exception of a single stab wound to the upper right arm.  Two centimeters is
roughly three-quarters of an inch.

Graysmith describes the knife blade used in the attack as 3 1/2 inches long and
an inch wide.  If this is reasonably accurate, then the killer cannot be
described as having STABBED the victim; rather, he SLASHED the victim.

None of this is consistent with a normal knife attack.  If there is a target
zone for the typical knife assault, it would be the heart.  And yet, Cheri's
killer went out of his way, so to speak, to slash her throat, in the process
nearly cutting her head off.  Two other Zodiac victims (Shelly Holmboe and
Robert Salem) were likewise near-decapitated, and all three died on Sunday.

Mike Kelleher recently wrote an article questioning whether the author of The
Confession Letter was Cheri Bates's killer.  It's clear that Riverside PD
thinks so.  In any case, it's also clear that NEITHER The Confession Letter NOR
the murder scene as recorded is internally consistent.

The Confession Letter doesn't make any sense.

And neither does the murder scene, assuming it happened the way all the Zodiac
websites say it did.     

Let's continue this unique line of inquiry.

I've noted that the victim's wounds fall into two categories: superficial and
mortal.  Whether the wound pattern, both in location and depth, was purely
accidental or intentional, it was nevertheless consistent.

The slashes to the throat were concentrated and deep; the slashes to other
parts of her body were scattered and shallow.  It is, moreover, remarkable that
NONE of the wounds could be categorized as a STAB wound, which is to say, a
wound caused by a THRUST of the knife blade.  All of the wounds except those to
the throat essentially skimmed along the surface.  A Zodiac researcher who
wanted to contest what I'm saying here might point out that there were numerous
wounds on Cheri Bates's body, which MIGHT suggest that her killer was, in fact,
trying to stab her but somehow being thwarted by the victim's movements.

I don't think that suggestion holds up under serious scrutiny.  If the killer
was grappling with the victim in a confined space as I suggested earlier, in a
corner of a room or a shower stall (as in Pyscho), and he was actively
attempting to stab the victim, you would most likely see a mixed pattern of
wounds--some deep, some superficial, with greatly varying angles because of the
close quarters and the defensive posture of the victim.

But the killer and victim in Riverside were both standing up (presumably) in an
open area.  If the killer were actually stabbing her, most likely with
roundhouse thrusts, and in a pitch dark alley, most of those thrusts would
figure to be unblocked, both because of the greater freedom of movement and the
greater difficulty of the victim blocking them in the dark with no sense of
touch to guide her.  Even if the killer were holding the victim with one hand
and stabbing with the other, some of those thrusts would land, most likely in
the torso, and would penetrate all the more deeply because of the wider swings
he'd be making.

And yet, that didn't happen.  Except for the throat slashes, which were the
last wounds the killer inflicted, all the other wounds on her body were
superficial, the result of shallow slashes, not thrusts.

The wounds on Cheri Bates's body, in particular the mortal wounds in her
throat, were the result of conscious planning on the part of her killer.  He
didn't just intend to kill her.

He intended to kill her by cutting her throat, and doing it as graphically as
possible.  





An interesting tidbit about Cheri Bates's interment at Crestlawn Memorial Park
is that her grave was exhumed in 1986; she was then cremated and her ashes
scattered at sea.  Some posters on Tom Voigt's original archived message board
mentioned the possibility that, in anticipation of the publication of Robert
Graysmith's ZZooddiiaacc (1986), the family may simply have removed Cheri's grave
marker and employed the cover story of the cremation/scattering.  Similar ruses
have been used by cemeteries in the cases of other notorious murder victims, to
keep the curious from desecrating graves.

The impact of the cremation, if true, on the investigation is that Cheri
Bates's body could then never be exhumed for the sake of the more sophisticated
forensic searches which are now available.  Those readers familiar with TV
channels such as Discovery ID ("The Serial Killer Channel") have probably
noticed how often murder victims are exhumed these days, particularly in cases
where the use of poison is suspected.  In 1986, the use of DNA as an
investigative tool was still theoretical, though the very first cases employing
the technique were to appear in the next few years.



This account of the reenactment breaks down the numbers a bit.  Of the 65
people involved in the reconstruction, 29 were fraternity brothers or pledges
who had met across the quad from the library.  Two were librarians, and one was
custodial.  Let's list the various numbers involved:

2299 ffrraatteerrnniittyy bbrrootthheerrss oorr pplleeddggeess
  22 lliibbrraarriiaannss
  11 ccuussttooddiiaann
3333 ssttuuddeennttss uussiinngg tthhee lliibbrraarryy
6655 ttoottaall

It should be noted that the actual number, the night of the murder, was 67,
since two people seen that night--a stocky man in his 20s wearing a beard, and
a woman he talked to inside the library--did not return for the reenactment.

I'm sure one or two of my critics will point out that the breakdown here means
that there were only 36 eyewitnesses inside the library that night.  But that's
fine.  36 is still a TON of witnesses inside that small a space for that short
a time.  It also means that there were at least 29 eyewitnesses OUTSIDE the
library, and since they were fraternity brothers and pledges, they were most
likely all still out there at 9pm, when the library closed.

Since fraternity brothers and pledges tend to be all male, and boys being boys,
it seems unlikely that none of them would have noticed a beautiful blonde
having car trouble out in front of the building.

Along the same lines, this account has the reenactment beginning at 5pm, when
the library closed for supper.  Since we know, for example, that the Mexican-
American student who saw Cheri Bates writing in her notebook at 5:30pm outside
in front of the library, must have been one of the eyewitnesses there for the
reenactment, that means that the reenactment included  the hour prior to the
reopening at 6pm.

The number of eyewitnesses who saw Cheri Bates outside in front of the library
between 5pm and 6pm was . . . one.

And that eyewitness saw her at 5:30pm, a half hour prior to the doors opening.

I've said the reconstruction established that no one saw Cheri Bates for 2
hours and 40 minutes that night, since Cheri was seen driving up the alley a
block from the library at 6:15pm.

It is perhaps more accurate to say that no one AT the library saw Cheri for 3
hours and 30 minutes, and then no one saw her OUTSIDE the library for an
additional 1 hour and 30 minutes.

The only eyewitnesses who saw Cheri Bates after 5:30pm were the girl friend who
saw her driving on Magnolia TOWARD RCC at 6:10pm, and then the March Air Force
Base man who saw her driving up the alley a block from RCC at 6:15pm.

That's it.

Note that the motorcycle officers further choreographed the comings and goings
of the witnesses by checking off each as he arrived for the reconstruction, and
turning away anyone not on the list.  This further demonstrates that Cheri
Bates's arrival circa 6:20pm was not witnessed by anyone.

Note also, in the first paragraph of the next page, just below, that most of
the library patrons were parked on Terracina, which is to say, they were parked
on the same street where Cheri Bates had parked her car.  And the ones who
weren't parked on Terracina were parked around the corner on Riverside.  Only a
handful were parked in the lot.

Can anyone seriously believe, at this late date, that Cheri Bates was at her
car for 1 hour and 30 minutes that night, attempting to start it, and NO ONE
SAW HER?



There have been various accounts of The RCC Library reenactment over the years,
but none gives the thoroughness of Riverside PD's reconstruction sufficient
credit.  They literally created a grid of parked cars, a grid of the seating
arrangements, a grid of the comings and goings, a grid in time itself.

If you think about it, a grid is a kind of net.  It has intersecting lines just
like a net.  When you fill in the empty spaces, it tightens just like a net. 
The more things are inside the grid, the tighter the net becomes.

And yet, the net cast by Riverside PD did not catch Cheri Bates.  It may have
caught her killers, or at least shown them to have slipped the net, since they
didn't show up for the reenactment, but it didn't catch Cheri Bates.

The net didn't catch her because she was never there in the first place.

I'm sure someone will point out that "five or six persons with scratches on
their faces or persons" had been questioned at length by detectives.  It's
important to add that all of those persons would have been CLEARED by the
police, at least partly because their fingerprints were taken and a lock of
hair was taken from them.  So unless you're going to insist that this murder
was a lot more complicated than has been suggested up until now, you'll have to
let that one go.

For what I hope is the last time: all of the local people were looked at very
carefully.

The administrator of a Zodiac website recently suggested that two high school
classmates of Cheri Bates should be looked at as potential suspects.  If that
administrator actually HAD anything on those classmates, maybe I could
understand his suspicions.  But he doesn't; what he has is that the two ended
up living in Vallejo and Napa in 1969, and that the man who moved to Vallejo
was stocky and wore glasses.

I wonder how many men who lived in Vallejo in 1969 were stocky and wore
glasses?

To assume, 45+ years after the fact, that police would not have taken a very
close look at every local male who had ANY connection to Cheri Bates, is to
assume that Riverside PD, who had virtually every member of its force working
on the Bates homicide at one time or another, was incompetent.

By the way, anyone who graduated high school with Cheri Bates was likely born
in 1948, and would have been about 21 years old in 1969 when the Zodiac began
killing people in The Bay Area.  That's kind of young to be a Zodiac suspect;
it is, for example, 5 years younger than my own suspect.  No one has suggested
the Zodiac was that young.

Here's the same administrator on whether Cheri Bates was in The RCC Library
that night:

IIff yyoouu aadddd iitt aallll uupp::
11--NNoottee ttoo DDaadd ssaayyiinngg sshhee wwaass ggooiinngg ttoo lliibbrraarryy
22--FFrriieenndd sseeeeiinngg hheerr hheeaaddiinngg tthhaatt ddiirreeccttiioonn
33--wwiittnneessss sseeeeiinngg aa ccaarr lliikkee hheerree ppuulllliinngg iinnttoo lliibbrraarryy ppaarrkkiinngg lloott
44--hheerr bbooookkss bbeeiinngg ffoouunndd iinn hheerr ccaarr
55--ppoolliiccee rreeppoorrtt sshhoowwiinngg aa vviioolleenntt ssttrruuggggllee aatt tthhee sscceennee
II tthhiinnkk aallll ooff tthhiiss aaddddss uupp ttoo CChheerrii mmaakkiinngg iitt ttoo tthhee RRiivveerrssiiddee ccoolllleeggee
lliibbrraarryy,, aanndd bbeeiinngg aattttaacckkeedd tthheerree..

I don't think the administrator has ADD, but something about his thinking here
just doesn't add up!

1-A note can't possibly put anyone anywhere.
2-Heading in the direction of the library doesn't mean she walked INTO the
library.
3-What witness are you talking about?  Her car was parked on Terracina, not in
any lot.
4-Anyone in possession of Cheri's student ID could have charged out the books.
5-The crime scene details do not put her in the library that night; they put
her at the crime scene.

No one in the library saw her; no one outside the library saw her.

Zodiac website administrators believe that Cheri Bates was in the library that
night.
They believe she voluntarily left her car in the condition police found it the
next morning.
They believe she had the slowest digestion in the history of 18-year-old
cheerleaders.
They believe she was stabbed by her killer, never mind what the autopsy says.

When you ignore all the eyewitnesses . . .
When you ignore what the victim's friends and fiance say about her habits . . .
When you ignore what the forensic evidence tells us . . .

What's left?

What's left is what Zodiac website administrators and Zodiac message board
posters believe.

You can all believe what you want.

But do me a favor.

Don't call what you believe THE FACTS.

Because THE FACTS are what you people have decided to ignore.
 


Note that there's lots of MISinformation about Cheri available on the web:

_A_n_g_e_l_F_i_r_e_._c_o_m

   
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
_[_W_e_b_ _H_o_s_t_i_n_g_]
