Aeneas
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This article is about the Greco-Roman hero. For other uses, see Aeneas (disambiguation).

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2010)


Aeneas flees burning Troy, Federico Barocci, 1598.
In Greco-Roman mythology, Aeneas ( /ɪˈniːəs/; Greek: Αἰνείας, Aineías, derived from Greek Αἰνή meaning "to praise") was a Trojan hero, the son of the prince Anchises and the goddess Aphrodite. His father was the second cousin of King Priam of Troy, making Aeneas Priam's second cousin, once removed. He is a character in Greek mythology and is mentioned in Homer's Iliad, and receives full treatment in Roman mythology as the legendary founder of what would become Ancient Rome, most extensively in Virgil's Aeneid.

Contents  [hide] 
1 Literary genealogy
1.1 Aeneas in Virgil
2 Family and legendary descendants
3 Physical appearance
4 Literature, theatre and film
5 Family tree
6 See also
7 References
8 References
[edit]Literary genealogy



Aeneas carrying Anchises, black-figured oinochoe, ca. 520–510 BC, Louvre (F 118)
In the Iliad, Aeneas is a minor character, where he is twice saved from death by the gods as if for an as yet unknown destiny. He is the leader of the Trojans' Dardanian allies, as well as a third cousin and principal lieutenant of Hector, son of the Trojan king Priam. Aeneas' mother Aphrodite frequently comes to his aid on the battlefield; he is a favorite of Apollo. Aphrodite and Apollo rescue Aeneas from combat with Diomedes of Argos, who nearly kills him, and carry him away to Pergamos for healing. Even Poseidon, who normally favors the Greeks, comes to Aeneas' rescue after he falls under the assault of Achilles, noting that Aeneas, though from a junior branch of the royal family, is destined to become king of the Trojan people. He kills 28 people in the Trojan War, and his career during that war is retold by Roman historian Gaius Julius Hyginus (c. 64 BC – AD 17) in his Fabulae.[1]

The history of Aeneas is continued by Roman authors. building on different myths and histories. During Virgil's time Aeneas was well-known and various versions of his adventures were circulating in Rome, including Roman Antiquities by Greek historian Dionysius of Halicarnassus (relying on Marcus Terentius Varro, Ab Urbe Condita by Livy (probably dependent on Quintus Fabius Pictor, fl. 200 BCE), and Gnaeus Pompeius Trogus (through an epitome by Justin). Likewise important in Virgil's day was the account of Rome's founding in Cato the Elder's Origines.[2]

[edit]Aeneas in Virgil
As seen in the first books of the Aeneid, Aeneas is one of the few Trojans who were not killed in battle or enslaved when Troy fell. When Troy was sacked by the Greeks, Aeneas, after being commanded by the gods to flee, gathered a group, collectively known as the Aeneads, who then traveled to Italy and became progenitors of Romans. The Aeneads included Aeneas' trumpeter Misenus, his father Anchises, his friends Achates, Sergestus and Acmon, the healer Iapyx, the helmsman Palinurus, and his son Ascanius (also known as Iulus, Julus, or Ascanius Julius). He carried with him the Lares and Penates, the statues of the household gods of Troy, and transplanted them to Italy.



Aeneas tells Dido about the fall of Troy, by Pierre-Narcisse Guérin.
Several attempts to find a new home failed; one such stop was on Sicily where in Drepanum, on the island's western coast, his father, Anchises, died peacefully.

After a brief but fierce storm sent up against the group at Juno's request, Aeneas and his fleet made landfall at Carthage after six years of wanderings. Aeneas had a year-long affair with the Carthaginian queen Dido (also known as Elissa), who proposed that the Trojans settle in her land and that she and Aeneas reign jointly over their peoples. A marriage of sorts is arranged between Dido and Aeneas at the instigation of Juno, who was told of the fact that her favorite city would eventually be defeated by the Trojans' descendants, and Aeneas's mother Venus (the Roman adaptation of Aphrodite), who realizes that her son and his company need a temporary reprieve to reinforce themselves for the journey to come. However, the messenger god Mercury was sent by Jupiter and Venus to remind Aeneas of his journey and his purpose, compelling him to leave secretly. When Dido learned of this, Dido uttered a curse that would forever pit Carthage against Rome, an enmity that would culminate in the Punic Wars. She then committed suicide by stabbing herself with the same sword she gave Aeneas when they first met.

After the sojourn in Carthage, the Trojans returned to Sicily where Aeneas organizes funeral games to honor his father, who had died a year before. The company travels on and lands on the western coast of Italy. Aeneas descends into the underworld where he meets Dido (who turns away from him to return to her husband) and his father, who shows him the future of his descendents and thus the history of Rome.



Aeneas defeats Turnus, by Luca Giordano, 1634–1705. The genius of Aeneas is shown ascendant, looking into the light of the future, while that of Turnus is setting, shrouded in darkness.
Latinus, king of the Latins, welcomed Aeneas' army of exiled Trojans and let them reorganize their lives in Latium. His daughter Lavinia had been promised to Turnus, king of the Rutuli, but Latinus received a prophecy that Lavinia would be betrothed to one from another land — namely, Aeneas. Latinus heeded the prophecy, and Turnus consequently declared war on Aeneas at the urging of Juno, who was aligned with King Mezentius of the Etruscans and Queen Amata of the Latins. Aeneas's forces prevailed. Turnus was killed, and Virgil's account ends abruptly.

The rest of Aeneas's biography is gleaned from Livy: Aeneas was victorious but Latinus died in the war. Aeneas founded the city of Lavinium, named after his wife. He later welcomed Dido's sister, Anna Perenna, who then committed suicide after learning of Lavinia's jealousy. After Aeneas' death, Aphrodite asked Jupiter to make her son immortal. Jupiter agreed and the river god Numicus cleansed Aeneas of all his mortal parts and Aphrodite anointed him with Ambrosia and Nectar, making him a god. Aeneas was recognized as the god Jupiter Indiges.

[edit]Family and legendary descendants



Aeneas and the god Tiber, by Bartolomeo Pinelli.
Aeneas had an extensive family tree. His wet-nurse was Caieta, and he is the father of Ascanius with Creusa, and of Silvius with Lavinia. The former, also known as Iulus (or Julius), founded Alba Longa and was the first in a long series of kings. According to the mythology outlined by Virgil in the Aeneid, Romulus and Remus were both descendants of Aeneas through their mother Rhea Silvia, making Aeneas progenitor of the Roman people. Some early sources call him their father or grandfather,[3] but considering the commonly accepted dates of the fall of Troy (1184 BC) and the founding of Rome (753 BC), this seems unlikely. The Julian family of Rome, most notably Julius Cæsar and Augustus, traced their lineage to Ascanius and Aeneas, thus to the goddess Aphrodite. Through the Julians, the Palemonids make this claim. The legendary kings of Britain trace their family through a grandson of Aeneas, Brutus.

[edit]Physical appearance

In Virgil's Aeneid, Aeneas is described as strong and handsome, but his hair colour or complexion are not described.[4] In late antiquity however sources add further physical descriptions. The Daretis Phrygii de excidio Trojae historia of Dares Phrygius describes Aeneas as ‘‘auburn-haired, stocky, eloquent, courteous, prudent, pious, and charming.’’[5]

There is also a brief physical description found in John Malalas' Chronographia:

‘‘Aeneas: short, fat, with a good chest, powerful, with a ruddy complexion, a broad face,
a good nose, fair skin, bald on the forehead, a good beard, grey eyes.’’[6]

[edit]Literature, theatre and film

Aeneas is the subject of the French mediaeval romance Roman d'Enéas.

Aeneas is also a titular character in Henry Purcell's opera Dido and Aeneas (c. 1688), and one of the principal roles in Hector Berlioz' opera Les Troyens (c. 1857).

In modern literature, Aeneas appears in David Gemmell's Troy series as a main heroic character who goes by the name Helikaon.

Aeneas is a main character in Ursula K. Le Guin's Lavinia, a re-telling of the last six books of the Aeneid told from the point of view of Lavinia, daughter of King Latinus of Latium.

Aeneas is one of the mythical founders of the Ventrue Clan in the Role Playing game Vampire: the Requiem by White Wolf Game Studios.

Despite the many Hollywood elements, Aeneas has received little interest from the film industry. Portrayed by Steve Reeves, he was the main character in the 1961 sword-and-sandal peplum Guerra di Troia (The Trojan War). Reeves reprised the role the following year in the film The Avenger, about Aeneas's arrival in Latium and his conflicts with local tribes as he tries to settle his fellow Trojan refugees there.

The most recent cinematic portrayal of Aeneas was in the film Troy, in which he appears as a youth charged by Paris to protect the Trojan refugees, and to continue the ideals of the city and its people. It is at this point that Paris gives Aeneas Priam's sword, in order to give legitimacy and continuity to the Royal Line of Troy – and lay the foundations of Rome.

[edit]Family tree

 
 
 
Zeus/Jupiter	
 
Electra	
 
Teucer	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dardanus	
 
 
 
Batea
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Erichthonius	
 
 
Ilus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tros
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ilus	
 
 
 
Assaracus	
 
 
 
Ganymede
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laomedon	
 
Themiste	
 
Capys
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Priam	
 
 
 
Anchises	
 
Aphrodite/Venus	
 
Latinus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Creusa	
 
 
 
 
 
Aeneas	
 
 
 
Lavinia
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ascanius	
 
 
 
 
 
Silvius
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Silvius	
 
 
 
Aeneas Silvius
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brutus of Britain	
 
 
Latinus Silvius
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alba
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Atys
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capys
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capetus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tiberinus Silvius
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agrippa
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Romulus Silvius
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aventinus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Procas
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numitor	
 
Amulius
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rhea Silvia	
 
Ares/Mars
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hersilia	
 
Romulus	
 
Remus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kings of Rome
[edit]See also

Cumaean Sibyl
Lacrimae rerum
The Golden Bough


Aeneid
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Aeneas Flees Burning Troy, Federico Barocci, 1598 Galleria Borghese, Rome


Map of Aeneas' journey
The Aeneid ( /əˈniːɪd/; Latin: Aeneis [ajˈneːis]—the title is Greek in form: genitive case Aeneidos) is a Latin epic poem, written by Virgil between 29 and 19 BC, that tells the legendary story of Aeneas, a Trojan who travelled to Italy, where he became the ancestor of the Romans. It is composed of 9,896 lines in dactylic hexameter.[1] The first six of the poem's twelve books tell the story of Aeneas's wanderings from Troy to Italy, and the poem's second half tells of the Trojans' ultimately victorious war upon the Latins, under whose name Aeneas and his Trojan followers are destined to be subsumed.

The hero Aeneas was already known to Greco-Roman legend and myth, having been a character in the Iliad, composed in the 8th century BC. Virgil took the disconnected tales of Aeneas' wanderings, his vague association with the foundation of Rome and a personage of no fixed characteristics other than a scrupulous piety, and fashioned this into a compelling founding myth or national epic that at once tied Rome to the legends of Troy, explained the Punic wars, glorified traditional Roman virtues and legitimized the Julio-Claudian dynasty as descendants of the founders, heroes and gods of Rome and Troy.

Contents  [hide] 
1 Story
1.1 Journey to Italy (books 1–6)
1.2 War in Italy (books 7–12)
2 Reception of the Aeneid
3 Virgil's death and editing of the Aeneid
4 History
5 Style
6 Themes
7 Allegory
8 Influence
8.1 Parodies and travesties
9 See also
10 Footnotes
11 Further reading
12 External links
12.1 Translations
12.2 Text
12.3 Sequels
12.4 Commentary
[edit]Story

The Aeneid can be divided into two halves based on the disparate subject matter of Books 1–6 (Aeneas' journey to Latium in Italy) and Books 7–12 (the war in Latium). These two halves are commonly regarded as reflecting Virgil's ambition to rival Homer by treating both the Odyssey's wandering theme and the Iliad's warfare themes.[2] This is, however, a rough correspondence, the limitations of which should be borne in mind.[3]

[edit]Journey to Italy (books 1–6)
Virgil begins his poem with a statement of his theme (Arma virumque cano ..., "I sing of arms and of a man ...") and an invocation to the Muse, falling some seven lines after the poem's inception: (Musa, mihi causas memora ..., "O Muse, recount to me the causes ..."). He then explains the reason for the principal conflict in the story: the resentment held by the goddess Juno against the Trojan people. This is consistent with her role throughout the Homeric epics.

Also in the manner of Homer, the story proper begins in medias res, with the Trojan fleet in the eastern Mediterranean, heading in the direction of Italy. The fleet, led by Aeneas, is on a voyage to find a second home. It has been foretold that in Italy, he will give rise to a race both noble and courageous, a race which will become known to all nations. Juno is wrathful, because she had not been chosen in the judgment of Paris, and because her favorite city, Carthage, will be destroyed by Aeneas' descendants. Also, Ganymede, a Trojan prince, was chosen to be her husband Jupiter's cup bearer—replacing Juno's daughter Hebe. Juno proceeds to Aeolus, King of the Winds, and asks that he release the winds to stir up a storm in exchange for a bribe (Deiopea, the loveliest of all her sea nymphs, as a wife). Despite refusing her bribe, he agrees, and the storm devastates the fleet.



The suicide of Queen Dido (book 4), sculpture by Augustin Cayot (1667-1772)
Neptune takes notice: although he himself is no friend of the Trojans, he is infuriated by Juno's intrusion into his domain, and stills the winds and calms the waters, after making sure that Aeolus would not try again. The fleet takes shelter on the coast of Africa. There, Aeneas's mother, Venus, in the form of a hunting woman very similar to the goddess Diana, encourages him and tells him the history of the city. Eventually, Aeneas ventures in, and in the temple of Juno, seeks and gains the favor of Dido, Queen of Carthage, the city which has only recently been founded by refugees from Tyre and which will later become one of Rome's greatest imperial rivals and enemies.

At a banquet given in the honour of the Trojans, Aeneas recounts sadly the events which occasioned the Trojans' fortuitous arrival. He begins the tale shortly after the events described in the Iliad. Crafty Ulysses devised a way for Greek warriors to gain entry into Troy by hiding in a large wooden horse. The Greeks pretended to sail away, leaving a man, Sinon, to tell the Trojans that the horse was an offering and that if it were taken into the city, the Trojans would be able to conquer Greece. The Trojan priest Laocoön, who had seen through the Greek plot and urged the horse's destruction, hurled his spear at the wooden horse. Just after, in what would be seen by the Trojans as punishment from the gods, Laocoön was suddenly grabbed and eaten, along with his two sons, by two giant sea snakes. So the Trojans brought the horse inside the fortified walls, and after nightfall the armed Greeks emerged and began to slaughter the city's inhabitants.

Aeneas woke up and saw with horror what was happening to his beloved city. At first he tried to fight against the enemy, but soon he lost his comrades and was left alone to fend off tens of Greeks. Hector, the fallen Trojan prince, had told him in a dream to flee with his family. Aeneas tells of his escape with his son Ascanius and father Anchises after various omens (his son Ascanius' head catches fire without his being harmed, and then a shooting star), his wife Creusa having been separated from the others and subsequently killed in the general catastrophe. After getting outside Troy, he goes back for his wife. With Creusa having been killed, her ghost appears before him and tells him that his destiny is to found Rome.

He tells of how, rallying the other survivors, he built a fleet of ships and made landfall at various locations in the Mediterranean: Thrace, where they find the last remains of a fellow Trojan, Polydorus; The Strophades, where they encounter the Harpy Celaeno; Crete, which they believe to be the land where they are to build their city (but they are set straight by Apollo); and Buthrotum. This last city had been built in an attempt to replicate Troy. In Buthrotum, Aeneas met Andromache, the widow of Hector. She still laments for the loss of her valiant husband and beloved child. There, too, Aeneas saw and met Helenus, one of Priam's sons, who had the gift of prophecy. Through him, Aeneas learned the destiny laid out for him: he was divinely advised to seek out the land of Italy (also known as Ausonia or Hesperia), where his descendants would not only prosper, but in time rule the entire known world. In addition, Helenus also bade him go to the Sibyl in Cumae.



Boxing scene from the Aeneid (book 5), mosaic floor from a Gallo-Roman villa in Villelaure (France), ca. 175 AD, Getty Villa (71.AH.106)
Heading out into the open sea, Aeneas left Buthrotum, rounding Italy's cape and making his way towards Sicily (Trinacria). There, they are caught in the whirlpool of Charybdis and driven out to sea. Soon they come ashore at the land of the Cyclops. There they meet a Greek, Achaemenides, one of Odysseus' men, who had been left behind when his comrades escaped the cave of Polyphemus. They take Achaemenides onboard and narrowly escape Polyphemus. Shortly after these events, Anchises dies peacefully of old age.

Meanwhile, Venus has her own plans. She goes to her son, Aeneas' half-brother Cupid, and tells him to imitate Ascanius. Disguised as such, he goes to Dido, and offers the gifts expected from a guest. With her motherly love revived in the presence of the boy, her heart is pierced and she falls in love with the boy and his father. During the banquet, Dido realizes that she has fallen madly in love with Aeneas, although she had previously sworn fidelity to the soul of her late husband, Sychaeus, who had been murdered by her brother Pygmalion.

Juno seizes upon this opportunity to make a deal with Venus, Aeneas' mother, with the intention of distracting him from his destiny of founding a city in Italy. Aeneas is inclined to return Dido's love, and during a hunting expedition, a storm drives them into a cave in which Aeneas and Dido presumably have sex, an event that Dido takes to indicate a marriage between them. But when Jupiter sends Mercury to remind Aeneas of his duty, he has no choice but to part. Her heart broken, Dido commits suicide by stabbing herself upon a pyre with Aeneas' sword. Before dying, she predicts eternal strife between Aeneas's people and hers; "rise up from my bones, avenging spirit" (4.625, trans. Fitzgerald) is an obvious invocation to Hannibal. Looking back from the deck of his ship, Aeneas sees Dido's funeral pyre's smoke and knows its meaning only too clearly. However, destiny calls and the Trojan fleet sails on to Italy.

Book 5 takes place on Sicily and centers on the funeral games that Aeneas organizes for the anniversary of his father's death. Aeneas and his men have left Carthage for Sicily where, one year after the death of his father, Aeneas organizes a nine-day anniversary which includes celebratory games–a boat race, a foot race, a boxing match, and a shooting contest. In all those contests, Aeneas is careful to reward winners and losers, showing his leadership qualities by not allowing for antagonism even after foul play. Afterward, Ascanius leads a military parade and demonstration, prefiguring Rome's future predilection for war. During those events (in which only men participate), Juno incites the womenfolk to burn the fleet and prevent them from ever reaching Italy, but her plan is thwarted when Ascanius and then Aeneas intervene. Aeneas prays to Jupiter to quench the fires, which the god does with a torrential rainstorm. An anxious Aeneas is comforted by a vision of his father, who tells him to go down to the underworld to receive a vision of his and Rome's future, which he will do in Book 6. In return for safe passage to Italy, the gods, by order of Jupiter, will receive one of Aeneas's men as sacrifice: Palinurus, who steers Aeneas's ship by night, falls overboard and is drowned.

In Book 6, Aeneas, with the guidance of the Cumaean Sibyl, descends into the underworld through an opening at Cumae; there he speaks with the spirit of his father and is offered a prophetic vision of the destiny of Rome.

[edit]War in Italy (books 7–12)


Roman bas-relief, 2nd century: Aeneas lands in Latium, leading Ascanius; the sow identifies the place to found his city (book 8).
Upon returning to the land of the living, Aeneas leads the Trojans to settle in the land of Latium, where he courts Lavinia, the daughter of king Latinus. Although Aeneas would have wished to avoid it, war eventually breaks out. Juno is heavily involved in causing this war—she convinces the Queen of Latium to demand that Lavinia be married to Turnus, the king of a local people, the Rutuli. Juno continues to stir up trouble, even summoning the Fury Alecto to ensure that a war takes place.

Seeing the masses of Italians that Turnus has brought against him, Aeneas seeks help from the Tuscans, enemies of Turnus. He meets King Evander from Arcadia, whose son Pallas agrees to lead troops against the other Italians. Meanwhile, the Trojan camp is being attacked, and a midnight raid leads to the deaths of Nisus and his companion Euryalus, in one of the most emotional passages in the book. The gates, however, are defended until Aeneas returns with his Tuscan and Arcadian reinforcements.



Aeneas's defeat of Turnus (book 12), painting by Luca Giordano
In the battling that follows, many heroes are killed—notably Pallas, who is killed by Turnus, and Mezentius, Turnus' close associate. The latter, who has inadvertently allowed his son to be killed while he himself fled, reproaches himself and faces Aeneas in single combat—an honourable but essentially futile pursuit. Another notable hero, Camilla, a sort of Amazon character, fights bravely but is eventually killed. She has been a virgin devoted to Diana and to her nation; the man who kills her is struck dead by Diana's sentinel Opis after doing so, even though he tries to escape.

After this, single combat is proposed between Aeneas and Turnus, but Aeneas is so obviously superior that the Italians, urged on by Turnus's divine sister, Juturna, break the truce. Aeneas is injured, but returns to the battle shortly afterwards. Turnus and Aeneas dominate the battle on opposite wings, but when Aeneas makes a daring attack at the city of Latium (causing the queen of Latium to hang herself in despair), he forces Turnus into single combat once more. In a dramatic scene, Turnus's strength deserts him as he tries to hurl a rock, and he is struck by Aeneas's spear in the leg. As Turnus is begging on his knees for his life, the poem ends with Aeneas killing him in rage when he sees that Turnus is wearing the belt of his friend Pallas as a trophy.

[edit]Reception of the Aeneid

Critics of the Aeneid focus on a variety of issues (see Fowler in the OCD for an excellent bibliography and summary).[4] The tone of the poem as a whole is a particular matter of debate; some see the poem as ultimately pessimistic and politically subversive to the Augustan regime, while others view it as a celebration of the new imperial dynasty. Virgil makes use of the symbolism of the Augustan regime, and some scholars see strong associations between Augustus and Aeneas, the one as founder and the other as re-founder of Rome. A strong teleology, or drive towards a climax, has been detected in the poem. The Aeneid is full of prophecies about the future of Rome, the deeds of Augustus, his ancestors, and famous Romans, and the Carthaginian Wars; the shield of Aeneas even depicts Augustus' victory at Actium in 31 BC. A further focus of study is the character of Aeneas. As the protagonist of the poem, Aeneas seems to constantly waver between his emotions and commitment to his prophetic duty to found Rome; critics note the breakdown of Aeneas' emotional control in the last sections of the poem where the "pious" and "righteous" Aeneas mercilessly slaughters Turnus.

The Aeneid appears to have been a great success. Virgil is said to have recited Books 2, 4 and 6 to Augustus;[5] the mention of her son, Marcellus, in book 6 apparently caused Augustus' sister Octavia to faint. Unfortunately, the poem was unfinished at Virgil's death in 19 BC.

[edit]Virgil's death and editing of the Aeneid

According to the tradition, Virgil traveled to Greece around 19 BC to revise the Aeneid. After meeting Augustus in Athens and deciding to return home, Virgil caught a fever while visiting a town near Megara. Virgil crossed to Italy by ship, weakened with disease, and died in Brundisium harbour on 21 September 19 BC, leaving a wish that the manuscript of the Aeneid was to be burned. Augustus ordered Virgil's literary executors, Lucius Varius Rufus and Plotius Tucca, to disregard that wish, instead ordering the Aeneid to be published with as few editorial changes as possible.[6] As a result, the existing text of the Aeneid may contain faults which Virgil was planning to correct before publication. However, the only obvious imperfections are a few lines of verse that are metrically unfinished (i.e., not a complete line of dactylic hexameter). Other alleged "imperfections" are subject to scholarly debate.

[edit]History



Folio 22 from the Vergilius Vaticanus—flight from Troy
The Aeneid was written in a time of major political and social change in Rome, with the fall of the Republic and the Final War of the Roman Republic having torn through society and many Romans' faith in the "Greatness of Rome" severely faltering. However, the new emperor, Augustus Caesar, began to institute a new era of prosperity and peace, specifically through the re-introduction of traditional Roman moral values. The Aeneid was seen as reflecting this aim, by depicting the heroic Aeneas as a man devoted and loyal to his country and its prominence, rather than personal gains, and going off on a journey for the betterment of Rome. In addition, the Aeneid attempted to legitimize the rule of Julius Caesar (and by extension, of his adopted son Augustus and his heirs) by renaming Aeneas' son, Ascanius (called Ilus from Ilium, meaning Troy), Iulus and offering him as an ancestor of the gens Julia, the family of Julius Caesar, and many other great imperial descendants as part of the prophecy given to him in the Underworld.

Despite the polished and complex nature of the Aeneid (legend stating that Virgil wrote only three lines of the poem each day), the number of half-complete lines and the abrupt ending are generally seen as evidence that Virgil died before he could finish the work. Because this poem was composed and preserved in writing rather than orally, the Aeneid is more complete than most classical epics. Furthermore, it is possible to debate whether Virgil intended to rewrite and add to such lines. Some of them would be difficult to complete, and in some instances, the brevity of a line increases its dramatic impact (some arguing the violent ending as a typically Virgilian comment on the darker, vengeful side of humanity). However, these arguments may be anachronistic—half-finished lines might equally, to Roman readers, have been a clear indication of an unfinished poem and have added nothing whatsoever to the dramatic effect.[citation needed]

The perceived deficiency of any account of Aeneas' marriage to Lavinia or his founding of the Roman race led some writers, such as the 15th-century Italian poet Maffeo Vegio (through his Mapheus Vegius widely printed in the Renaissance), Pier Candido Decembrio (whose attempt was never completed), Claudio Salvucci (in his 1994 epic poem The Laviniad), and Ursula K. Le Guin (in her 2008 novel Lavinia) to compose their own supplements.

Some legends state that Virgil, fearing that he would die before he had properly revised the poem, gave instructions to friends (including the current emperor, Augustus) that the Aeneid should be burned upon his death, owing to its unfinished state and because he had come to dislike one of the sequences in Book VIII, in which Venus and Vulcan have sexual intercourse, for its nonconformity to Roman moral virtues. The friends did not comply with Virgil's wishes and Augustus himself ordered that they be disregarded. After minor modifications, the Aeneid was published.

The first full and faithful rendering of the poem in an Anglic language is the Scots translation by Gavin Douglas—his Eneados, completed in 1513, which also included Maffeo Vegio's supplement. Even in the 20th century, Ezra Pound considered this still to be the best Aeneid translation, praising the "richness and fervour" of its language and its hallmark fidelity to the original.[7][8] The English translation by the 17th-century poet John Dryden is another important version. Most classic translations, including both Douglas and Dryden, employed a rhyme scheme, a very non-Roman convention that is not usually followed in modern versions.

Recent English verse translations include those by British Poet Laureate Cecil Day-Lewis (1963) which strove to render Virgil's original hexameter line, Allen Mandelbaum (honoured by a 1973 National Book Award), Library of Congress Poet Laureate Robert Fitzgerald (1981), Stanley Lombardo (2005), Robert Fagles (2006), and Sarah Ruden (2008).

[edit]Style

The Aeneid, like other classical epics, is written in dactylic hexameter: each line consists of six metrical feet made up of dactyls (one long syllable followed by two short syllables) and spondees (two long syllables). As with other classical Latin poetry, the meter is based on the length of syllables rather than the stress, though the interplay of meter and stress is also important. Virgil also incorporated such poetic devices as alliteration, onomatopoeia, synecdoche, and assonance. Furthermore, he uses personification, metaphor and simile in his work, usually to add drama and tension to the scene. An example of a simile can be found in book II when Aeneas is compared to a shepherd who stood on the high top of a rock unaware of what is going on around him.[9] It can be seen that just as the shepherd is a protector of his sheep, so too is Aeneas to his people.

As was the rule in classical antiquity, an author's style was seen as an expression of his personality and character. Virgil's Latin has been praised for its evenness, subtlety and dignity. It is an open question whether these were also features characteristic of Virgil the man.

[edit]Themes

	This section does not cite any references or sources. (October 2008)
Nearly the entirety of the Aeneid is devoted to the theme of conflict. The primary conflict is that of Aeneas, as guided by gods such as Jupiter, Apollo and Venus, Aeneas' mother. Aeneas is representative of pietas (a self-less sense of duty), against Turnus, who is guided by Juno, representing unbridled furor (mindless passion and fury). Furor is also personified in the character Dido; however, although her furor conflicts with Aeneas' pietas, she herself is not pitted against Aeneas. Other conflicts within the Aeneid include fate versus action, male versus female, Rome versus Carthage, Aeneas as Odysseus in Books 1–6 versus Aeneas as Achilles in Books 7–12, calm weather versus storms, and the Gate of Horn versus the Ivory Gate of Book VI.

Pietas, possibly the key quality of any 'honorable' Roman, consisted of a series of duties: duty towards the gods (hence the English word piety), duty towards one's homeland, duty towards one's followers and duty to one's family—especially one's father. Therefore, a further theme of the poem explores the strong relationship between fathers and sons. The bonds between Aeneas and Ascanius, Aeneas and Anchises, Evander and Pallas, Mezentius and Lausus are all worthy of note. This theme reflects Augustan moral reforms and was perhaps intended to set an example for Roman youth.

The major moral of the Aeneid is acceptance of the workings of the gods as fate through the use of pietas or piety. In composing the character of Aeneas, Virgil alludes to Augustus, suggesting that the gods work their ways through humans, using Aeneas to found Rome and Augustus to lead it, and that one must accept one's fate.

[edit]Allegory

The poem abounds with smaller and greater allegories. Two of the debated allegorical sections pertain to the exit from the underworld and to Pallas's belt.

There are two gates of Sleep, one said to be of horn, whereby the true shades pass with ease, the other all white ivory agleam without a flaw, and yet false dreams are sent through this one by the ghost to the upper world. Anchises now, his last instructions given, took son and Sibyl and let them go by the Ivory Gate.

—Book VI, lines 893–899, Fitzgerald trans. (emphasis added)

Aeneas's leaving the underworld through the gate of false dreams has been variously interpreted: One suggestion is that the passage simply refers to the time of day at which Aeneas returned to the world of the living; another is that it implies that all of Aeneas's actions in the remainder of the poem are somehow "false". In an extension of the latter interpretation, it has been suggested that Virgil is conveying that the history of the world since the foundation of Rome is but a lie. Other scholars claim that Virgil is establishing that the theological implications of the preceding scene (an apparent system of reincarnation) are not to be taken as literal.[10]

The second section in question is

Then to his glance appeared the accurst swordbelt surmounting Turnus' shoulder, shining with its familiar studs—the strap Young Pallas wore when Turnus wounded him and left him dead upon the field; now Turnus bore that enemy token on his shoulder—enemy still. For when the sight came home to him, Aeneas raged at the relic of his anguish worn by this man as trophy. Blazing up and terrible in his anger, he called out: "You in your plunder, torn from one of mine, shall I be robbed of you? This wound will come from Pallas: Pallas makes this offering, and from your criminal blood exacts his due." He sank his blade in fury in Turnus' chest …

—Book XII, lines 1281–1295, Fitzgerald trans. (emphasis added)

This section has been interpreted to mean that for the entire passage of the poem, Aeneas who symbolizes pietas (reason) in a moment becomes furor (fury), thus destroying what is essentially the primary theme of the poem itself. Many have argued over these two sections. Some claim that Virgil meant to change them before he died, while others find that the location of the two passages, at the very end of the so-called Volume I (Books 1–6, the Odyssey), and Volume II (Books 7–12, the Iliad), and their short length, which contrasts with the lengthy nature of the poem, are evidence that Virgil placed them purposefully there.

[edit]Influence



Virgil Reading the Aeneid to Augustus and Octavia,[11] by Jean-Joseph Taillasson, 1787, an early neoclassical painting (National Gallery, London)
The Aeneid is a cornerstone of the Western canon, and early (at least by the 2nd century AD) became one of the essential elements of a Latin education,[12] usually required to be memorized.[13] Even after the decline of the Roman Empire, it "remained central to a Latin education".[14] In Latin-Christian culture, the Aeneid was one of the canonical texts, subjected to commentary as a philological and educational study,[15] with the most complete commentary having been written by the 4th-century grammarian Maurus Servius Honoratus.[16] It was widely held to be the pinnacle of Latin literature, much in the same way that the Iliad was seen to be supreme in Greek literature. The strong influence of the Aeneid has been identified in the development of European vernacular literatures—some English works that show its influence being Beowulf, Layamon's Brut (through the source text Historia Regum Britanniae), The Faerie Queene, and Milton's Paradise Lost. Italian poet Dante Alighieri was himself profoundly influenced by the Aeneid, so much so that his magnum opus The Divine Comedy, itself widely considered a part of the western canon, was written in a style similar to the Aeneid and featured the author Virgil as a major character - the guide of Dante through the realms of the Inferno and Purgatorio. The importance of Latin education itself was paramount in Western culture: "from 1600 to 1900, the Latin school was at the center of European education, wherever it was found"; within that Latin school, Virgil was taught at the advanced level and, in 19th-century England, special editions of Virgil were awarded to students who distinguished themselves.[17]

In the United States, Virgil and specifically the Aeneid were taught in the fourth year of a Latin sequence, at least until the 1960s;[18] the current (2011) Advanced Placement curriculum in Latin continues to assign a central position to the poem: "The AP Latin: Virgil Exam is designed to test the student's ability to read, translate, understand, analyze, and interpret the lines of the Aeneid that appear on the course syllabus in Latin."[19]

As a result, many phrases from this poem entered the Latin language, much as passages from Shakespeare and Alexander Pope have entered the English language. One example is from Aeneas' reaction to a painting of the sack of Troy: Sunt lacrimae rerum et mentem mortalia tangunt—"These are the tears of things, and our mortality cuts to the heart" (Aeneid I, 462). The influence is also visible in very modern work: Brian Friel's Translations (a play written in the 1980s, set during the English colonization of Ireland), makes references to the classics throughout and ends with a passage from the Aeneid:

Urbs antiqua fuit—there was an ancient city which, 'tis said, Juno loved above all the lands. And it was the goddess's aim and cherished hope that here should be the capital of all nations—should the fates perchance allow that. Yet in truth she discovered that a race was springing from Trojan blood to overthrow some day these Tyrian towers—a people late regem belloque superbum—kings of broad realms and proud in war who would come forth for Libya's downfall.[20]

The Aeneid was the basis for the 1962 Italian film The Avenger.

In the musical Spring Awakening, based on the play of the same title by Frank Wedekind, schoolboys study the Latin text, and the first verse of Book 1 is incorporated into the number "All That's Known".

[edit]Parodies and travesties
A number of parodies and travesties of the Aeneid have been made.[21] One of the earliest was written in Italian by Giovanni Batista Lalli in 1635, titled L'Eneide travestita del Signor Gio.
A French parody by Paul Scarron became famous in France in the mid-17th century, and spread rapidly through Europe, accompanying the growing French influence. Its influence was especially strong in Russia.
Charles Cotton's work Scarronides included a travestied Aeneid.
In 1796, the Russian poet N. P. Osipov published travesties of several portions of the Aeneid.
From the late 18th to the early 19th centuries, many Slavic language folk parodies of the story were made. One of these, Енеїда (Eneyida), was written in 1798 by Ivan Kotlyarevsky. It is considered to be the first literary work written in a language close to modern Ukrainian. His epic poem was adapted into an animated feature film of the same name, in 1991, by Ukranimafilm.[22]
[edit]See also

Brutus of Troy
Characters in the Aeneid
Greek mythology
Roman mythology
Papyrus Oxyrhynchus 31
The Golden Bough
Prosody (Latin)

Category:Characters in the Aeneid
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Characters in Virgil's Aeneid.

Subcategories

This category has the following 3 subcategories, out of 3 total.

6
► Characters in Book VI of the Aeneid‎ (2 C, 47 P)
D
► Deities in the Aeneid‎ (12 P)
P
► Phoenician characters in the Aeneid‎ (5 P)
Pages in category "Characters in the Aeneid"

The following 77 pages are in this category, out of 77 total. This list may not reflect recent changes (learn more).

A
Acestes
Achaemenides
Achates
Actor (mythology)
Aeneads
Aeneas
Aeolus
Ajax the Lesser
Alcathous
Aletes (Aeneid character)
Anchises
Androgeos
Andromache
Anna Perenna
Antilochus
Antiphates
Ascanius
Automedon
Aventinus (mythology)
B
Butes
C
Caieta
Camilla (mythology)
Capys
Cassandra
Catillus
Clonius
C cont.
Clytius
Creusa
Cydon
Cydonians
D
Dardanus
Dares Phrygius
Diomedes
E
Elymus
Entellus
Erulus
Euryalus
Evander of Pallene
H
Halaesus
Halys
Helenus
Hippocoon
I
Iarbas
Ilioneus
Iphitos
J
Juturna
L
Laocoön
Laocoön (El Greco)
Latinus
Lausus
Lavinia
M
Macar
M cont.
Messapus
Metabus
Mezentius
Mimas (Aeneid)
Misenus
Mnestheus
N
Nisus and Euryalus
O
Ornytus
P
Palinurus
Pallas (son of Evander)
Pandarus
Panthous
Paris (mythology)
Picus
Polites
Priam
R
Ripheus
Rutuli
S
Salius
Sinon
T
Template:Aeneid character
Theano
Thymoetes
Template:Trojan race
Turnus

Greek mythology
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Bust of Zeus, Otricoli (Sala Rotonda, Museo Pio-Clementino, Vatican).
Topics in Greek mythology
Gods
Primordial gods and Titans
Zeus and the Olympians
Pan and the nymphs
Apollo and Dionysus
Sea-gods and Earth-gods
Heroes
Heracles and his Labors
Achilles and the Trojan War
Odysseus and the Odyssey
Jason and the Argonauts
Perseus and Medusa/Gorgon
Oedipus and Thebes
Theseus and the Minotaur
Triptolemus and the
Eleusinian Mysteries
Related
Satyrs, centaurs and dragons
Religion in Ancient Greece
Greek mythology portal
Greek mythology are myths and legends belonging to the ancient Greeks, concerning their gods and heroes, the nature of the world, and the origins and significance of their own cult and ritual practices. They were a part of religion in ancient Greece and are part of religion in modern Greece and around the world as Hellenismos. Modern scholars refer to, and study, the myths in an attempt to throw light on the religious and political institutions of Ancient Greece, its civilization, and to gain understanding of the nature of myth-making itself.[1]

Greek mythology is embodied, explicitly, in a large collection of narratives, and implicitly in Greek representational arts, such as vase-paintings and votive gifts. Greek myth attempts to explain the origins of the world, and details the lives and adventures of a wide variety of gods, goddesses, heroes, heroines, and mythological creatures. These accounts initially were disseminated in an oral-poetic tradition; today the Greek myths are known primarily from Greek literature.

The oldest known Greek literary sources, Homer's epic poems Iliad and Odyssey, focus on events surrounding the Trojan War. Two poems by Homer's near contemporary Hesiod, the Theogony and the Works and Days, contain accounts of the genesis of the world, the succession of divine rulers, the succession of human ages, the origin of human woes, and the origin of sacrificial practices. Myths also are preserved in the Homeric Hymns, in fragments of epic poems of the Epic Cycle, in lyric poems, in the works of the tragedians of the fifth century BC, in writings of scholars and poets of the Hellenistic Age and in texts from the time of the Roman Empire by writers such as Plutarch and Pausanias.

Archaeological findings provide a principal source of detail about Greek mythology, with gods and heroes featured prominently in the decoration of many artifacts. Geometric designs on pottery of the eighth century BC depict scenes from the Trojan cycle as well as the adventures of Heracles. In the succeeding Archaic, Classical, and Hellenistic periods, Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear, supplementing the existing literary evidence.[2] Greek mythology has had an extensive influence on the culture, arts, and literature of Western civilization and remains part of Western heritage and language. Poets and artists from ancient times to the present have derived inspiration from Greek mythology and have discovered contemporary significance and relevance in the themes.[3]

Contents  [hide] 
1 Sources
1.1 Literary sources
1.2 Archaeological sources
2 Survey of mythic history
2.1 Era of mythology gods
2.1.1 Cosmogony and cosmology
2.1.2 Greek pantheon
2.2 Age of gods and mortals
2.3 Heroic age
2.3.1 Heracles and the Heracleidae
2.3.2 Argonauts
2.3.3 House of Atreus and Theban Cycle
2.3.4 Trojan War and aftermath
3 Greek and Roman conceptions of myth
3.1 Philosophy and myth
3.2 Hellenistic and Roman rationalism
3.3 Syncretizing trends
4 Modern interpretations
4.1 Comparative and psychoanalytic approaches
4.2 Origin theories
5 Motifs in Western art and literature
6 References
6.1 Primary sources (Greek and Roman)
6.2 Secondary sources
7 Further reading
8 External links
[edit]Sources

Greek mythology is known today primarily from Greek literature and representations on visual media dating from the Geometric period from c. 900–800 BC onward.[4] In fact, literary and archaeological sources intergrade, sometimes mutually supportive and sometimes in conflict; however, in many cases, the existence of this corpus of data is a strong indication that many elements of Greek mythology have strong factual and historical roots.[5]

[edit]Literary sources
Mythical narration plays an important role in nearly every genre of Greek literature. Nevertheless, the only general mythographical handbook to survive from Greek antiquity was the Library of Pseudo-Apollodorus. This work attempts to reconcile the contradictory tales of the poets and provides a grand summary of traditional Greek mythology and heroic legends.[6] Apollodorus of Athens lived from c. 180–120 BC and wrote on many of these topics. His writings may have formed the basis for the collection; however the "Library" discusses events that occurred long after his death, hence the name Pseudo-Apollodorus.



Prometheus (1868 by Gustave Moreau). The myth of Prometheus first was attested by Hesiod and then constituted the basis for a tragic trilogy of plays, possibly by Aeschylus, consisting of Prometheus Bound, Prometheus Unbound, and Prometheus Pyrphoros.
Among the earliest literary sources are Homer's two epic poems, the Iliad and the Odyssey. Other poets completed the "epic cycle", but these later and lesser poems now are lost almost entirely. Despite their traditional name, the "Homeric Hymns" have no direct connection with Homer. They are choral hymns from the earlier part of the so-called Lyric age.[7] Hesiod, a possible contemporary with Homer, offers in his Theogony (Origin of the Gods) the fullest account of the earliest Greek myths, dealing with the creation of the world; the origin of the gods, Titans, and Giants; as well as elaborate genealogies, folktales, and etiological myths. Hesiod's Works and Days, a didactic poem about farming life, also includes the myths of Prometheus, Pandora, and the Four Ages. The poet gives advice on the best way to succeed in a dangerous world, rendered yet more dangerous by its gods.[2]

Lyrical poets often took their subjects from myth, but their treatment became gradually less narrative and more allusive. Greek lyric poets including Pindar, Bacchylides, Simonides and bucolic poets such as Theocritus and Bion, relate individual mythological incidents.[8] Additionally, myth was central to classical Athenian drama. The tragic playwrights Aeschylus, Sophocles, and Euripides took most of their plots from myths of the age of heroes and the Trojan War. Many of the great tragic stories (e.g. Agamemnon and his children, Oedipus, Jason, Medea, etc.) took on their classic form in these tragedies. The comic playwright Aristophanes also used myths, in The Birds and The Frogs.[9]

Historians Herodotus and Diodorus Siculus, and geographers Pausanias and Strabo, who traveled throughout the Greek world and noted the stories they heard, supplied numerous local myths and legends, often giving little-known alternative versions.[8] Herodotus in particular, searched the various traditions presented him and found the historical or mythological roots in the confrontation between Greece and the East.[10] Herodotus attempted to reconcile origins and the blending of differing cultural concepts.

The poetry of the Hellenistic and Roman ages was primarily composed as a literary rather than cultic exercise. Nevertheless, it contains many important details that would otherwise be lost. This category includes the works of:

The Roman poets Ovid, Statius, Valerius Flaccus, Seneca, and Virgil with Servius's commentary.
The Greek poets of the Late Antique period: Nonnus, Antoninus Liberalis, and Quintus Smyrnaeus.
The Greek poets of the Hellenistic period: Apollonius of Rhodes, Callimachus, Pseudo-Eratosthenes, and Parthenius.
The ancient novels of Greeks and Romans such as Apuleius, Petronius, Lollianus, and Heliodorus.
The Fabulae and Astronomica of the Roman writer styled as Pseudo-Hyginus are two important, non-poetical compendiums of myth. The Imagines of Philostratus the Elder and Philostratus the Younger and the Descriptions of Callistratus, are two other useful sources that were drawn upon for themes.

Finally, Arnobius and a number of Byzantine Greek writers provide important details of myth, much derived from earlier now lost Greek works. These preservers of myth include a lexicon of Hesychius, the Suda, and the treatises of John Tzetzes and Eustathius. The Christian moralizing view of Greek myth is encapsulated in the saying, ἐν παντὶ μύθῳ καὶ τὸ Δαιδάλου μύσος / en panti muthōi kai to Daidalou musos ("In every myth there is also the defilement of Daidalos"). In this fashion, the encyclopedic Sudas reported the role of Daedalus in satisfying the "unnatural lust" of Pasiphaë for the bull of Poseidon: "Since the origin and blame for these evils were attributed to Daidalos and he was loathed for them, he became the subject of the proverb."[11]

[edit]Archaeological sources


The Roman poet Virgil, here depicted in the fifth-century manuscript, the Vergilius Romanus, preserved details of Greek mythology in many of his writings.
The discovery of the Mycenaean civilization by the German amateur archaeologist, Heinrich Schliemann, in the nineteenth century, and the discovery of the Minoan civilization in Crete by British archaeologist, Sir Arthur Evans, in the twentieth century, helped to explain many existing questions about Homer's epics and provided archaeological evidence for many of the mythological details about gods and heroes. Unfortunately, the evidence about myth and ritual at Mycenaean and Minoan sites is entirely monumental, as the Linear B script (an ancient form of Greek found in both Crete and Greece) was used mainly to record inventories, although the names of gods and heroes doubtfully have been revealed.[2]

Geometric designs on pottery of the eighth century BC depict scenes from the Trojan cycle, as well as the adventures of Heracles.[2] These visual representations of myths are important for two reasons. For one, many Greek myths are attested on vases earlier than in literary sources: of the twelve labors of Heracles, for example, only the Cerberus adventure occurs in a contemporary literary text.[12] In addition, visual sources sometimes represent myths or mythical scenes that are not attested in any extant literary source. In some cases, the first known representation of a myth in geometric art predates its first known representation in late archaic poetry, by several centuries.[4] In the Archaic (c. 750–c. 500 BC), Classical (c. 480–323 BC), and Hellenistic (323–146 BC) periods, Homeric and various other mythological scenes appear, supplementing the existing literary evidence.[2]

[edit]Survey of mythic history

Greek mythology has changed over time to accommodate the evolution of their culture, of which mythology, both overtly and in its unspoken assumptions, is an index of the changes. In Greek mythology's surviving literary forms, as found mostly at the end of the progressive changes, is inherently political, as Gilbert Cuthbertson has urged.[13]

The earlier inhabitants of the Balkan Peninsula were an agricultural people who, using Animism, assigned a spirit to every aspect of nature. Eventually, these vague spirits assumed human forms and entered the local mythology as gods.[14] When tribes from the north of the Balkan Peninsula invaded, they brought with them a new pantheon of gods, based on conquest, force, prowess in battle, and violent heroism. Other older gods of the agricultural world fused with those of the more powerful invaders or else faded into insignificance.[15]

After the middle of the Archaic period, myths about relationships between male gods and male heroes became more and more frequent, indicating the parallel development of pedagogic pederasty (eros paidikos, παιδικὸς ἔρως), thought to have been introduced around 630 BC. By the end of the fifth century BC, poets had assigned at least one eromenos, an adolescent boy who was their sexual companion, to every important god except Ares and to many legendary figures.[16] Previously existing myths, such as those of Achilles and Patroclus, also then were cast in a pederastic light.[17] Alexandrian poets at first, then more generally literary mythographers in the early Roman Empire, often readapted stories of Greek mythological characters in this fashion.

The achievement of epic poetry was to create story-cycles and, as a result, to develop a new sense of mythological chronology. Thus Greek mythology unfolds as a phase in the development of the world and of humans.[18] While self-contradictions in these stories make an absolute timeline impossible, an approximate chronology may be discerned. The resulting mythological "history of the world" may be divided into three or four broader periods:

The myths of origin or age of gods (Theogonies, "births of gods"): myths about the origins of the world, the gods, and the human race.
The age when gods and mortals mingled freely: stories of the early interactions between gods, demigods, and mortals.
The age of heroes (heroic age), where divine activity was more limited. The last and greatest of the heroic legends is the story of the Trojan War and after (which is regarded by some researchers as a separate fourth period).[19]
While the age of gods often has been of more interest to contemporary students of myth, the Greek authors of the archaic and classical eras had a clear preference for the age of heroes, establishing a chronology and record of human accomplishments after the questions of how the world came into being were explained. For example, the heroic Iliad and Odyssey dwarfed the divine-focused Theogony and Homeric Hymns in both size and popularity. Under the influence of Homer the "hero cult" leads to a restructuring in spiritual life, expressed in the separation of the realm of the gods from the realm of the dead (heroes), of the Chthonic from the Olympian.[20] In the Works and Days, Hesiod makes use of a scheme of Four Ages of Man (or Races): Golden, Silver, Bronze, and Iron. These races or ages are separate creations of the gods, the Golden Age belonging to the reign of Cronos, the subsequent races the creation of Zeus. The poet regards it as the worst; the presence of evil was explained by the myth of Pandora, when all of the best of human capabilities, save hope, had been spilled out of her overturned jar.[21] In Metamorphoses, Ovid follows Hesiod's concept of the four ages.[22]

[edit]Era of mythology gods
[edit]Cosmogony and cosmology
See also: Greek primordial gods and Family tree of the Greek gods


Amor Vincit Omnia (Love Conquers All), a depiction of the god of love, Eros. By Michelangelo Merisi da Caravaggio, circa 1601–1602.
"Myths of origin" or "creation myths" represent an attempt to render the universe comprehensible in human terms and explain the origin of the world.[23] The most widely accepted version at the time, although a philosophical account of the beginning of things, is reported by Hesiod, in his Theogony. He begins with Chaos, a yawning nothingness. Out of the void emerged Gaia (the Earth) and some other primary divine beings: Eros (Love), the Abyss (the Tartarus), and the Erebus.[24] Without male assistance, Gaia gave birth to Uranus (the Sky) who then fertilized her. From that union were born first the Titans—six males: Coeus, Crius, Cronus, Hyperion, Iapetus, and Oceanus; and six females: Mnemosyne, Phoebe, Rhea, Theia, Themis, and Tethys. After Cronus was born, Gaia and Uranus decreed no more Titans were to be born. They were followed by the one-eyed Cyclopes and the Hecatonchires or Hundred-Handed Ones, who were both thrown into Tartarus by Uranus. This made Gaia furious. Cronus ("the wily, youngest and most terrible of Gaia's children"[24]), was convinced by Gaia to castrate his father. He did this, and became the ruler of the Titans with his sister-wife Rhea as his consort, and the other Titans became his court.

A motif of father-against-son conflict was repeated when Cronus was confronted by his son, Zeus. Because Cronus had betrayed his father, he feared that his offspring would do the same, and so each time Rhea gave birth, he snatched up the child and ate it. Rhea hated this and tricked him by hiding Zeus and wrapping a stone in a baby's blanket, which Cronus ate. When Zeus was full grown, he fed Cronus a drugged drink which caused him to vomit, throwing up Rhea's other children and the stone, which had been sitting in Cronus's stomach all along. Zeus then challenged Cronus to war for the kingship of the gods. At last, with the help of the Cyclopes (whom Zeus freed from Tartarus), Zeus and his siblings were victorious, while Cronus and the Titans were hurled down to imprisonment in Tartarus.[25]



Attic black-figured amphora depicting Athena being "reborn" from the head of Zeus, who had swallowed her mother, Metis, the goddess of childbirth. Eileithyia, on the right assists, circa 550–525 BC (Musée du Louvre, Paris).
Zeus was plagued by the same concern and, after a prophecy that the offspring of his first wife, Metis, would give birth to a god "greater than he"—Zeus swallowed her.[26] She was already pregnant with Athena, however, and she burst forth from his head—fully-grown and dressed for war.[27]

The earliest Greek thought about poetry considered the theogonies to be the prototypical poetic genre—the prototypical mythos—and imputed almost magical powers to it. Orpheus, the archetypal poet, also was the archetypal singer of theogonies, which he uses to calm seas and storms in Apollonius' Argonautica, and to move the stony hearts of the underworld gods in his descent to Hades. When Hermes invents the lyre in the Homeric Hymn to Hermes, the first thing he does is sing about the birth of the gods.[28] Hesiod's Theogony is not only the fullest surviving account of the gods, but also the fullest surviving account of the archaic poet's function, with its long preliminary invocation to the Muses. Theogony also was the subject of many lost poems, including those attributed to Orpheus, Musaeus, Epimenides, Abaris, and other legendary seers, which were used in private ritual purifications and mystery-rites. There are indications that Plato was familiar with some version of the Orphic theogony.[29] A silence would have been expected about religious rites and beliefs, however, and that nature of the culture would not have been reported by members of the society while the beliefs were held. After they ceased to become religious beliefs, few would have known the rites and rituals. Allusions often existed, however, to aspects that were quite public.

Images existed on pottery and religious artwork that were interpreted and more likely, misinterpreted in many diverse myths and tales. A few fragments of these works survive in quotations by Neoplatonist philosophers and recently unearthed papyrus scraps. One of these scraps, the Derveni Papyrus now proves that at least in the fifth century BC a theogonic-cosmogonic poem of Orpheus was in existence.[30]

The first philosophical cosmologists reacted against, or sometimes built upon, popular mythical conceptions that had existed in the Greek world for some time. Some of these popular conceptions can be gleaned from the poetry of Homer and Hesiod. In Homer, the Earth was viewed as a flat disk afloat on the river of Oceanus and overlooked by a hemispherical sky with sun, moon, and stars. The Sun (Helios) traversed the heavens as a charioteer and sailed around the Earth in a golden bowl at night. Sun, earth, heaven, rivers, and winds could be addressed in prayers and called to witness oaths. Natural fissures were popularly regarded as entrances to the subterranean house of Hades and his predecessors, home of the dead.[31] Influences from other cultures always afforded new themes.

[edit]Greek pantheon
See also: Religion in ancient Greece and Twelve Olympians


Zeus, disguised as a swan, seduces Leda, the Queen of Sparta. A sixteenth century copy of the lost original by Michelangelo.
According to Classical-era mythology, after the overthrow of the Titans, the new pantheon of gods and goddesses was confirmed. Among the principal Greek gods were the Olympians, residing atop Mount Olympus under the eye of Zeus. (The limitation of their number to twelve seems to have been a comparatively modern idea.)[32] Besides the Olympians, the Greeks worshipped various gods of the countryside, the satyr-god Pan, Nymphs (spirits of rivers), Naiads (who dwelled in springs), Dryads (who were spirits of the trees), Nereids (who inhabited the sea), river gods, Satyrs, and others. In addition, there were the dark powers of the underworld, such as the Erinyes (or Furies), said to pursue those guilty of crimes against blood-relatives.[33] In order to honor the Ancient Greek pantheon, poets composed the Homeric Hymns (a group of thirty-three songs).[34] Gregory Nagy regards "the larger Homeric Hymns as simple preludes (compared with Theogony), each of which invokes one god".[35]

In the wide variety of myths and legends that Greek mythology consists of, the gods that were native to the Greek peoples are described as having essentially corporeal but ideal bodies. According to Walter Burkert, the defining characteristic of Greek anthropomorphism is that "the Greek gods are persons, not abstractions, ideas or concepts".[36] Regardless of their underlying forms, the Ancient Greek gods have many fantastic abilities; most significantly, the gods are not affected by disease, and can be wounded only under highly unusual circumstances. The Greeks considered immortality as the distinctive characteristic of their gods; this immortality, as well as unfading youth, was insured by the constant use of nectar and ambrosia, by which the divine blood was renewed in their veins.[37]

Each god descends from his or her own genealogy, pursues differing interests, has a certain area of expertise, and is governed by a unique personality; however, these descriptions arise from a multiplicity of archaic local variants, which do not always agree with one another. When these gods are called upon in poetry, prayer or cult, they are referred to by a combination of their name and epithets, that identify them by these distinctions from other manifestations of themselves (e.g., Apollo Musagetes is "Apollo, [as] leader of the Muses"). Alternatively the epithet may identify a particular and localized aspect of the god, sometimes thought to be already ancient during the classical epoch of Greece.

Most gods were associated with specific aspects of life. For example, Aphrodite was the goddess of love and beauty, Ares was the god of war, Hades the god of the dead, and Athena the goddess of wisdom and courage.[38] Some gods, such as Apollo and Dionysus, revealed complex personalities and mixtures of functions, while others, such as Hestia (literally "hearth") and Helios (literally "sun"), were little more than personifications. The most impressive temples tended to be dedicated to a limited number of gods, who were the focus of large pan-Hellenic cults. It was, however, common for individual regions and villages to devote their own cults to minor gods. Many cities also honored the more well-known gods with unusual local rites and associated strange myths with them that were unknown elsewhere. During the heroic age, the cult of heroes (or demi-gods) supplemented that of the gods.

[edit]Age of gods and mortals
Bridging the age when gods lived alone and the age when divine interference in human affairs was limited was a transitional age in which gods and mortals moved together. These were the early days of the world when the groups mingled more freely than they did later. Most of these tales were later told by Ovid's Metamorphoses and they are often divided into two thematic groups: tales of love, and tales of punishment.[39]



Dionysus with satyrs. Interior of a cup painted by the Brygos Painter, Cabinet des Médailles.
Tales of love often involve incest, or the seduction or rape of a mortal woman by a male god, resulting in heroic offspring. The stories generally suggest that relationships between gods and mortals are something to avoid; even consenting relationships rarely have happy endings.[40] In a few cases, a female divinity mates with a mortal man, as in the Homeric Hymn to Aphrodite, where the goddess lies with Anchises to produce Aeneas.[41]

The second type (tales of punishment) involves the appropriation or invention of some important cultural artifact, as when Prometheus steals fire from the gods, when Tantalus steals nectar and ambrosia from Zeus' table and gives it to his own subjects—revealing to them the secrets of the gods, when Prometheus or Lycaon invents sacrifice, when Demeter teaches agriculture and the Mysteries to Triptolemus, or when Marsyas invents the aulos and enters into a musical contest with Apollo. Ian Morris considers Prometheus' adventures as "a place between the history of the gods and that of man".[42] An anonymous papyrus fragment, dated to the third century, vividly portrays Dionysus' punishment of the king of Thrace, Lycurgus, whose recognition of the new god came too late, resulting in horrific penalties that extended into the afterlife.[43] The story of the arrival of Dionysus to establish his cult in Thrace was also the subject of an Aeschylean trilogy.[44] In another tragedy, Euripides' The Bacchae, the king of Thebes, Pentheus, is punished by Dionysus, because he disrespected the god and spied on his Maenads, the female worshippers of the god.[45]



Demeter and Metanira in a detail on an Apulian red-figure hydria, circa 340 BC (Altes Museum, Paris).
In another story, based on an old folktale-motif,[46] and echoing a similar theme, Demeter was searching for her daughter, Persephone, having taken the form of an old woman called Doso, and received a hospitable welcome from Celeus, the King of Eleusis in Attica. As a gift to Celeus, because of his hospitality, Demeter planned to make his son Demophon a god, but she was unable to complete the ritual because his mother Metanira walked in and saw her son in the fire and screamed in fright, which angered Demeter, who lamented that foolish mortals do not understand the concept and ritual.[47]

[edit]Heroic age
The age in which the heroes lived is known as the heroic age.[48] The epic and genealogical poetry created cycles of stories clustered around particular heroes or events and established the family relationships between the heroes of different stories; they thus arranged the stories in sequence. According to Ken Dowden, "there is even a saga effect: we can follow the fates of some families in successive generations".[18]

After the rise of the hero cult, gods and heroes constitute the sacral sphere and are invoked together in oaths and prayers which are addressed to them.[20] In contrast to the age of gods, during the heroic age the roster of heroes is never given fixed and final form; great gods are no longer born, but new heroes can always be raised up from the army of the dead. Another important difference between the hero cult and the cult of gods is that the hero becomes the centre of local group identity.[20]

The monumental events of Heracles are regarded as the dawn of the age of heroes. To the Heroic Age are also ascribed three great events: the Argonautic expedition, the Theban Cycle and the Trojan War.[49]

[edit]Heracles and the Heracleidae
See also: Heracles, Heracleidae, and Hercules


Heracles with his baby Telephus (Louvre Museum, Paris).
Some scholars believe[50] that behind Heracles' complicated mythology there was probably a real man, perhaps a chieftain-vassal of the kingdom of Argos. Some scholars suggest the story of Heracles is an allegory for the sun's yearly passage through the twelve constellations of the zodiac.[51] Others point to earlier myths from other cultures, showing the story of Heracles as a local adaptation of hero myths already well established. Traditionally, Heracles was the son of Zeus and Alcmene, granddaughter of Perseus.[52] His fantastic solitary exploits, with their many folk-tale themes, provided much material for popular legend. He is portrayed as a sacrificier, mentioned as a founder of altars, and imagined as a voracious eater himself; it is in this role that he appears in comedy, while his tragic end provided much material for tragedy — Heracles is regarded by Thalia Papadopoulou as "a play of great significance in examination of other Euripidean dramas".[53] In art and literature Heracles was represented as an enormously strong man of moderate height; his characteristic weapon was the bow but frequently also the club. Vase paintings demonstrate the unparalleled popularity of Heracles, his fight with the lion being depicted many hundreds of times.[54]

Heracles also entered Etruscan and Roman mythology and cult, and the exclamation "mehercule" became as familiar to the Romans as "Herakleis" was to the Greeks.[54] In Italy he was worshipped as a god of merchants and traders, although others also prayed to him for his characteristic gifts of good luck or rescue from danger.[52]

Heracles attained the highest social prestige through his appointment as official ancestor of the Dorian kings. This probably served as a legitimation for the Dorian migrations into the Peloponnese. Hyllus, the eponymous hero of one Dorian phyle, became the son of Heracles and one of the Heracleidae or Heraclids (the numerous descendants of Heracles, especially the descendants of Hyllus — other Heracleidae included Macaria, Lamos, Manto, Bianor, Tlepolemus, and Telephus). These Heraclids conquered the Peloponnesian kingdoms of Mycenae, Sparta and Argos, claiming, according to legend, a right to rule them through their ancestor. Their rise to dominance is frequently called the "Dorian invasion". The Lydian and later the Macedonian kings, as rulers of the same rank, also became Heracleidae.[55]

Other members of this earliest generation of heroes, such as Perseus, Deucalion, Theseus and Bellerophon, have many traits in common with Heracles. Like him, their exploits are solitary, fantastic and border on fairy tale, as they slay monsters such as the Chimera and Medusa. Bellerophon's adventures are commonplace types, similar to the adventures of Heracles and Theseus. Sending a hero to his presumed death is also a recurrent theme of this early heroic tradition, used in the cases of Perseus and Bellerophon.[56]

[edit]Argonauts
For more details on this topic, see Argonauts.
The only surviving Hellenistic epic, the Argonautica of Apollonius of Rhodes (epic poet, scholar, and director of the Library of Alexandria) tells the myth of the voyage of Jason and the Argonauts to retrieve the Golden Fleece from the mythical land of Colchis. In the Argonautica, Jason is impelled on his quest by king Pelias, who receives a prophecy that a man with one sandal would be his nemesis. Jason loses a sandal in a river, arrives at the court of Pelias, and the epic is set in motion. Nearly every member of the next generation of heroes, as well as Heracles, went with Jason in the ship Argo to fetch the Golden Fleece. This generation also included Theseus, who went to Crete to slay the Minotaur; Atalanta, the female heroine; and Meleager, who once had an epic cycle of his own to rival the Iliad and Odyssey. Pindar, Apollonius and the Bibliotheca endeavor to give full lists of the Argonauts.[57]

Although Apollonius wrote his poem in the 3rd century BC, the composition of the story of the Argonauts is earlier than Odyssey, which shows familiarity with the exploits of Jason (the wandering of Odysseus may have been partly founded on it).[58] In ancient times the expedition was regarded as a historical fact, an incident in the opening up of the Black Sea to Greek commerce and colonization.[59] It was also extremely popular, forming a cycle to which a number of local legends became attached. The story of Medea, in particular, caught the imagination of the tragic poets.[60]

[edit]House of Atreus and Theban Cycle
See also: Theban Cycle and Seven Against Thebes
In between the Argo and the Trojan War, there was a generation known chiefly for its horrific crimes. This includes the doings of Atreus and Thyestes at Argos. Behind the myth of the house of Atreus (one of the two principal heroic dynasties with the house of Labdacus) lies the problem of the devolution of power and of the mode of accession to sovereignty. The twins Atreus and Thyestes with their descendants played the leading role in the tragedy of the devolution of power in Mycenae.[61]

The Theban Cycle deals with events associated especially with Cadmus, the city's founder, and later with the doings of Laius and Oedipus at Thebes; a series of stories that lead to the eventual pillage of that city at the hands of the Seven Against Thebes and Epigoni.[62] (It is not known whether the Seven Against Thebes figured in early epic.) As far as Oedipus is concerned, early epic accounts seem to have him continuing to rule at Thebes after the revelation that Iokaste was his mother, and subsequently marrying a second wife who becomes the mother of his children — markedly different from the tale known to us through tragedy (e.g. Sophocles' Oedipus the King) and later mythological accounts.[63]

[edit]Trojan War and aftermath


In The Rage of Achilles by Giovanni Battista Tiepolo (1757, Fresco, 300 x 300 cm, Villa Valmarana, Vicenza) Achilles is outraged that Agamemnon would threaten to seize his warprize, Briseis, and he draws his sword to kill Agamemnon. The sudden appearance of the goddess Athena, who, in this fresco, has grabbed Achilles by the hair, prevents the act of violence.
For more details on this topic, see Trojan War and Epic Cycle
Greek mythology culminates in the Trojan War, fought between the Greeks and Troy, and its aftermath. In Homer's works, such as the Iliad, the chief stories have already taken shape and substance, and individual themes were elaborated later, especially in Greek drama. The Trojan War also elicited great interest in the Roman culture because of the story of Aeneas, a Trojan hero whose journey from Troy led to the founding of the city that would one day become Rome, as recounted in Virgil's Aeneid (Book II of Virgil's Aeneid contains the best-known account of the sack of Troy).[64] Finally there are two pseudo-chronicles written in Latin that passed under the names of Dictys Cretensis and Dares Phrygius.[65]

The Trojan War cycle, a collection of epic poems, starts with the events leading up to the war: Eris and the golden apple of Kallisti, the Judgement of Paris, the abduction of Helen, the sacrifice of Iphigenia at Aulis. To recover Helen, the Greeks launched a great expedition under the overall command of Menelaus' brother, Agamemnon, king of Argos or Mycenae, but the Trojans refused to return Helen. The Iliad, which is set in the tenth year of the war, tells of the quarrel between Agamemnon and Achilles, who was the finest Greek warrior, and the consequent deaths in battle of Achilles' beloved comrade Patroclus and Priam's eldest son, Hector. After Hector's death the Trojans were joined by two exotic allies, Penthesilea, queen of the Amazons, and Memnon, king of the Ethiopians and son of the dawn-goddess Eos.[66] Achilles killed both of these, but Paris then managed to kill Achilles with an arrow in the heel. Achilles' heel was the only part of his body which was not invulnerable to damage by human weaponry. Before they could take Troy, the Greeks had to steal from the citadel the wooden image of Pallas Athena (the Palladium). Finally, with Athena's help, they built the Trojan Horse. Despite the warnings of Priam's daughter Cassandra, the Trojans were persuaded by Sinon, a Greek who feigned desertion, to take the horse inside the walls of Troy as an offering to Athena; the priest Laocoon, who tried to have the horse destroyed, was killed by sea-serpents. At night the Greek fleet returned, and the Greeks from the horse opened the gates of Troy. In the total sack that followed, Priam and his remaining sons were slaughtered; the Trojan women passed into slavery in various cities of Greece. The adventurous homeward voyages of the Greek leaders (including the wanderings of Odysseus and Aeneas (the Aeneid), and the murder of Agamemnon) were told in two epics, the Returns (the lost Nostoi) and Homer's Odyssey.[67] The Trojan cycle also includes the adventures of the children of the Trojan generation (e.g., Orestes and Telemachus).[66]

The Trojan War provided a variety of themes and became a main source of inspiration for Ancient Greek artists (e.g. metopes on the Parthenon depicting the sack of Troy); this artistic preference for themes deriving from the Trojan Cycle indicates its importance to the Ancient Greek civilization.[67] The same mythological cycle also inspired a series of posterior European literary writings. For instance, Trojan Medieval European writers, unacquainted with Homer at first hand, found in the Troy legend a rich source of heroic and romantic storytelling and a convenient framework into which to fit their own courtly and chivalric ideals. 12th century authors, such as Benoît de Sainte-Maure (Roman de Troie [Romance of Troy, 1154–60]) and Joseph of Exeter (De Bello Troiano [On the Trojan War, 1183]) describe the war while rewriting the standard version they found in Dictys and Dares. They thus follow Horace's advice and Virgil's example: they rewrite a poem of Troy instead of telling something completely new.[68]

[edit]Greek and Roman conceptions of myth

Mythology was at the heart of everyday life in Ancient Greece.[69] Greeks regarded mythology as a part of their history. They used myth to explain natural phenomena, cultural variations, traditional enmities and friendships. It was a source of pride to be able to trace one's leaders' descent from a mythological hero or a god. Few ever doubted that there was truth behind the account of the Trojan War in the Iliad and Odyssey. According to Victor Davis Hanson, a military historian, columnist, political essayist and former Classics professor, and John Heath, associate professor of Classics at Santa Clara University, the profound knowledge of the Homeric epos was deemed by the Greeks the basis of their acculturation. Homer was the "education of Greece" (Ἑλλάδος παίδευσις), and his poetry "the Book".[70]

[edit]Philosophy and myth


Raphael's Plato in The School of Athens fresco (probably in the likeness of Leonardo da Vinci). The philosopher expelled the study of Homer, of the tragedies and of the related mythological traditions from his utopian Republic.
After the rise of philosophy, history, prose and rationalism in the late 5th century BC, the fate of myth became uncertain, and mythological genealogies gave place to a conception of history which tried to exclude the supernatural (such as the Thucydidean history).[71] While poets and dramatists were reworking the myths, Greek historians and philosophers were beginning to criticize them.[7]

A few radical philosophers like Xenophanes of Colophon were already beginning to label the poets' tales as blasphemous lies in the 6th century BC; Xenophanes had complained that Homer and Hesiod attributed to the gods "all that is shameful and disgraceful among men; they steal, commit adultery, and deceive one another".[72] This line of thought found its most sweeping expression in Plato's Republic and Laws. Plato created his own allegorical myths (such as the vision of Er in the Republic), attacked the traditional tales of the gods' tricks, thefts and adulteries as immoral, and objected to their central role in literature.[7] Plato's criticism was the first serious challenge to the Homeric mythological tradition,[70] referring to the myths as "old wives' chatter".[73] For his part Aristotle criticized the Pre-socratic quasi-mythical philosophical approach and underscored that "Hesiod and the theological writers were concerned only with what seemed plausible to themselves, and had no respect for us ... But it is not worth taking seriously writers who show off in the mythical style; as for those who do proceed by proving their assertions, we must cross-examine them".[71]

Nevertheless, even Plato did not manage to wean himself and his society from the influence of myth; his own characterization for Socrates is based on the traditional Homeric and tragic patterns, used by the philosopher to praise the righteous life of his teacher:[74]

“	But perhaps someone might say: "Are you then not ashamed, Socrates, of having followed such a pursuit, that you are now in danger of being put to death as a result?" But I should make to him a just reply: "You do not speak well, Sir, if you think a man in whom there is even a little merit ought to consider danger of life or death, and not rather regard this only, when he does things, whether the things he does are right or wrong and the acts of a good or a bad man. For according to your argument all the demigods would be bad who died at Troy, including the son of Thetis, who so despised danger, in comparison with enduring any disgrace, that when his mother (and she was a goddess) said to him, as he was eager to slay Hector, something like this, I believe,
My son, if you avenge the death of your friend Patroclus and kill Hector, you yourself shall die; for straightway, after Hector, is death appointed unto you. (Hom. Il. 18.96)
he, when he heard this, made light of death and danger, and feared much more to live as a coward and not to avenge his friends, and said,

Straightway may I die, after doing vengeance upon the wrongdoer, that I may not stay here, jeered at beside the curved ships, a burden of the earth.
”
Hanson and Heath estimate that Plato's rejection of the Homeric tradition was not favorably received by the grassroots Greek civilization.[70] The old myths were kept alive in local cults; they continued to influence poetry and to form the main subject of painting and sculpture.[71]

More sportingly, the 5th century BC tragedian Euripides often played with the old traditions, mocking them, and through the voice of his characters injecting notes of doubt. Yet the subjects of his plays were taken, without exception, from myth. Many of these plays were written in answer to a predecessor's version of the same or similar myth. Euripides mainly impugns the myths about the gods and begins his critique with an objection similar to the one previously expressed by Xenocrates: the gods, as traditionally represented, are far too crassly anthropomorphic.[72]



Cicero saw himself as the defender of the established order, despite his personal skepticism with regard to myth and his inclination towards more philosophical conceptions of divinity.


In Roman religion the worship of the Greek god Apollo (early Imperial Roman copy of a fourth century Greek original, Louvre Museum) was combined with the cult of Sol Invictus. The worship of Sol as special protector of the emperors and of the empire remained the chief imperial religion until it was replaced by Christianity.
[edit]Hellenistic and Roman rationalism
During the Hellenistic period, mythology took on the prestige of elite knowledge that marks its possessors as belonging to a certain class. At the same time, the skeptical turn of the Classical age became even more pronounced.[75] Greek mythographer Euhemerus established the tradition of seeking an actual historical basis for mythical beings and events.[76] Although his original work (Sacred Scriptures) is lost, much is known about it from what is recorded by Diodorus and Lactantius.[77]

Rationalizing hermeneutics of myth became even more popular under the Roman Empire, thanks to the physicalist theories of Stoic and Epicurean philosophy. Stoics presented explanations of the gods and heroes as physical phenomena, while the Euhemerists rationalized them as historical figures. At the same time, the Stoics and the Neoplatonists promoted the moral significations of the mythological tradition, often based on Greek etymologies.[78] Through his Epicurean message, Lucretius had sought to expel superstitious fears from the minds of his fellow-citizens.[79] Livy, too, is skeptical about the mythological tradition and claims that he does not intend to pass judgement on such legends (fabulae).[80] The challenge for Romans with a strong and apologetic sense of religious tradition was to defend that tradition while conceding that it was often a breeding-ground for superstition. The antiquarian Varro, who regarded religion as a human institution with great importance for the preservation of good in society, devoted rigorous study to the origins of religious cults. In his Antiquitates Rerum Divinarum (which has not survived, but Augustine's City of God indicates its general approach) Varro argues that whereas the superstitious man fears the gods, the truly religious person venerates them as parents.[79] In his work he distinguished three kinds of gods:

The gods of nature: personifications of phenomena like rain and fire.
The gods of the poets: invented by unscrupulous bards to stir the passions.
The gods of the city: invented by wise legislators to soothe and enlighten the populace.
Roman Academic Cotta ridicules both literal and allegorical acceptance of myth, declaring roundly that myths have no place in philosophy.[81] Cicero is also generally disdainful of myth, but, like Varro, he is emphatic in his support for the state religion and its institutions. It is difficult to know how far down the social scale this rationalism extended.[80] Cicero asserts that no one (not even old women and boys) is so foolish as to believe in the terrors of Hades or the existence of Scyllas, centaurs or other composite creatures,[82] but, on the other hand, the orator elsewhere complains of the superstitious and credulous character of the people.[83] De Natura Deorum is the most comprehensive summary of Cicero's line of thought.[84]

[edit]Syncretizing trends
See also: Roman mythology
In Ancient Roman times, a new Roman mythology was born through syncretization of numerous Greek and other foreign gods. This occurred because the Romans had little mythology of their own and inheritance of the Greek mythological tradition caused the major Roman gods to adopt characteristics of their Greek equivalents.[80] The gods Zeus and Jupiter are an example of this mythological overlap. In addition to the combination of the two mythological traditions, the association of the Romans with eastern religions led to further syncretizations.[85] For instance, the cult of Sun was introduced in Rome after Aurelian's successful campaigns in Syria. The Asiatic divinities Mithras (that is to say, the Sun) and Ba'al were combined with Apollo and Helios into one Sol Invictus, with conglomerated rites and compound attributes.[86] Apollo might be increasingly identified in religion with Helios or even Dionysus, but texts retelling his myths seldom reflected such developments. The traditional literary mythology was increasingly dissociated from actual religious practice.

The surviving 2nd century collection of Orphic Hymns (second century AD) and the Saturnalia of Macrobius Ambrosius Theodosius (fifth century) are influenced by the theories of rationalism and the syncretizing trends as well. The Orphic Hymns are a set of pre-classical poetic compositions, attributed to Orpheus, himself the subject of a renowned myth. In reality, these poems were probably composed by several different poets, and contain a rich set of clues about prehistoric European mythology.[87] The stated purpose of the Saturnalia is to transmit the Hellenic culture Macrobius has derived from his reading, even though much of his treatment of gods is colored by Egyptian and North African mythology and theology (which also affect the interpretation of Virgil). In Saturnalia reappear mythographical comments influenced by the Euhemerists, the Stoics and the Neoplatonists.[78]

[edit]Modern interpretations

For more details on this topic, see Modern understanding of Greek mythology.
The genesis of modern understanding of Greek mythology is regarded by some scholars as a double reaction at the end of the eighteenth century against "the traditional attitude of Christian animosity", in which the Christian reinterpretation of myth as a "lie" or fable had been retained.[88] In Germany, by about 1795, there was a growing interest in Homer and Greek mythology. In Göttingen, Johann Matthias Gesner began to revive Greek studies, while his successor, Christian Gottlob Heyne, worked with Johann Joachim Winckelmann, and laid the foundations for mythological research both in Germany and elsewhere.[89]

[edit]Comparative and psychoanalytic approaches


Max Müller is regarded as one of the founders of comparative mythology. In his Comparative Mythology (1867) Müller analysed the "disturbing" similarity between the mythologies of "savage races" with those of the early Europeans.
See also: Comparative mythology
The development of comparative philology in the 19th century, together with ethnological discoveries in the 20th century, established the science of myth. Since the Romantics, all study of myth has been comparative. Wilhelm Mannhardt, Sir James Frazer, and Stith Thompson employed the comparative approach to collect and classify the themes of folklore and mythology.[90] In 1871 Edward Burnett Tylor published his Primitive Culture, in which he applied the comparative method and tried to explain the origin and evolution of religion.[91] Tylor's procedure of drawing together material culture, ritual and myth of widely separated cultures influenced both Carl Jung and Joseph Campbell. Max Müller applied the new science of comparative mythology to the study of myth, in which he detected the distorted remains of Aryan nature worship. Bronisław Malinowski emphasized the ways myth fulfills common social functions. Claude Lévi-Strauss and other structuralists have compared the formal relations and patterns in myths throughout the world.[90]

Sigmund Freud introduced a transhistorical and biological conception of man and a view of myth as an expression of repressed ideas. Dream interpretation is the basis of Freudian myth interpretation and Freud's concept of dreamwork recognizes the importance of contextual relationships for the interpretation of any individual element in a dream. This suggestion would find an important point of rapprochment between the structuralist and psychoanalytic approaches to myth in Freud's thought.[92] Carl Jung extended the transhistorical, psychological approach with his theory of the "collective unconscious" and the archetypes (inherited "archaic" patterns), often encoded in myth, that arise out of it.[2] According to Jung, "myth-forming structural elements must be present in the unconscious psyche".[93] Comparing Jung's methodology with Joseph Campbell's theory, Robert A. Segal concludes that "to interpret a myth Campbell simply identifies the archetypes in it. An interpretation of the Odyssey, for example, would show how Odysseus’s life conforms to a heroic pattern. Jung, by contrast, considers the identification of archetypes merely the first step in the interpretation of a myth".[94] Karl Kerényi, one of the founders of modern studies in Greek mythology, gave up his early views of myth, in order to apply Jung's theories of archetypes to Greek myth.[95]

[edit]Origin theories
See also: Similarities between Roman, Greek and Etruscan mythologies


For Karl Kerényi mythology is "a body of material contained in tales about gods and god-like beings, heroic battles and journeys to the Underworld—mythologem is the best Greek word for them—tales already well-known but not amenable to further re-shaping".[96]
There are various modern theories about the origins of Greek mythology. According to the Scriptural Theory, all mythological legends are derived from the narratives of the Scriptures, although the real facts have been disguised and altered.[97] According to the Historical Theory all the persons mentioned in mythology were once real human beings, and the legends relating to them are merely the additions of later times. Thus the story of Aeolus is supposed to have arisen from the fact that Aeolus was the ruler of some islands in the Tyrrhenian Sea.[98] The Allegorical Theory supposes that all the ancient myths were allegorical and symbolical; while the Physical Theory subscribed to the idea that the elements of air, fire, and water were originally the objects of religious adoration, thus the principal gods were personifications of these powers of nature.[99] Max Müller attempted to understand an Indo-European religious form by tracing it back to its Aryan, "original" manifestation. In 1891, he claimed that "the most important discovery which has been made during the nineteenth century with respect to the ancient history of mankind ... was this sample equation: Sanskrit Dyaus-pitar = Greek Zeus = Latin Jupiter = Old Norse Tyr".[100] In other cases, close parallels in character and function suggest a common heritage, yet lack of linguistic evidence makes it difficult to prove, as in the comparison between Uranus and the Sanskrit Varuna or the Moirai and the Norns.[101]

Archaeology and mythography, on the other hand, have revealed that the Greeks were inspired by some of the civilizations of Asia Minor and the Near East. Adonis seems to be the Greek counterpart — more clearly in cult than in myth — of a Near Eastern "dying god". Cybele is rooted in Anatolian culture while much of Aphrodite's iconography springs from Semitic goddesses. There are also possible parallels between the earliest divine generations (Chaos and its children) and Tiamat in the Enuma Elish.[102] According to Meyer Reinhold, "near Eastern theogonic concepts, involving divine succession through violence and generational conflicts for power, found their way ... into Greek mythology".[103] In addition to Indo-European and Near Eastern origins, some scholars have speculated on the debts of Greek mythology to the pre-Hellenic societies: Crete, Mycenae, Pylos, Thebes and Orchomenus.[104] Historians of religion were fascinated by a number of apparently ancient configurations of myth connected with Crete (the god as bull, Zeus and Europa, Pasiphaë who yields to the bull and gives birth to the Minotaur etc.) Professor Martin P. Nilsson concluded that all great classical Greek myths were tied to Mycenaen centres and were anchored in prehistoric times.[105] Nevertheless, according to Burkert, the iconography of the Cretan Palace Period has provided almost no confirmation for these theories.[106]

[edit]Motifs in Western art and literature

For more details on this topic, see Greek mythology in western art and literature.
See also: List of films based on Greco-Roman mythology


Botticelli's The Birth of Venus (c. 1485–1486, oil on canvas, Uffizi, Florence) — a revived Venus Pudica for a new view of pagan Antiquity—is often said to epitomize for modern viewers the spirit of the Renaissance.[2]
The widespread adoption of Christianity did not curb the popularity of the myths. With the rediscovery of classical antiquity in the Renaissance, the poetry of Ovid became a major influence on the imagination of poets, dramatists, musicians and artists.[107] From the early years of Renaissance, artists such as Leonardo da Vinci, Michelangelo, and Raphael, portrayed the Pagan subjects of Greek mythology alongside more conventional Christian themes.[107] Through the medium of Latin and the works of Ovid, Greek myth influenced medieval and Renaissance poets such as Petrarch, Boccaccio and Dante in Italy.[2]



The Lament for Icarus by Herbert James Draper, 1898.
In Northern Europe, Greek mythology never took the same hold of the visual arts, but its effect was very obvious on literature. The English imagination was fired by Greek mythology starting with Chaucer and John Milton and continuing through Shakespeare to Robert Bridges in the 20th century. Racine in France and Goethe in Germany revived Greek drama, reworking the ancient myths.[107] Although during the Enlightenment of the 18th century reaction against Greek myth spread throughout Europe, the myths continued to provide an important source of raw material for dramatists, including those who wrote the libretti for many of Handel's and Mozart's operas.[108] By the end of the 18th century, Romanticism initiated a surge of enthusiasm for all things Greek, including Greek mythology. In Britain, new translations of Greek tragedies and Homer inspired contemporary poets (such as Alfred Lord Tennyson, Keats, Byron and Shelley) and painters (such as Lord Leighton and Lawrence Alma-Tadema).[109] Christoph Gluck, Richard Strauss, Jacques Offenbach and many others set Greek mythological themes to music.[2] American authors of the 19th century, such as Thomas Bulfinch and Nathaniel Hawthorne, held that the study of the classical myths was essential to the understanding of English and American literature.[110] In more recent times, classical themes have been reinterpreted by dramatists Jean Anouilh, Jean Cocteau, and Jean Giraudoux in France, Eugene O'Neill in America, and T. S. Eliot in Britain and by novelists such as James Joyce and André Gide.[2]

Aeneas
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This article is about the Greco-Roman hero. For other uses, see Aeneas (disambiguation).

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2010)


Aeneas flees burning Troy, Federico Barocci, 1598.
In Greco-Roman mythology, Aeneas ( /ɪˈniːəs/; Greek: Αἰνείας, Aineías, derived from Greek Αἰνή meaning "to praise") was a Trojan hero, the son of the prince Anchises and the goddess Aphrodite. His father was the second cousin of King Priam of Troy, making Aeneas Priam's second cousin, once removed. He is a character in Greek mythology and is mentioned in Homer's Iliad, and receives full treatment in Roman mythology as the legendary founder of what would become Ancient Rome, most extensively in Virgil's Aeneid.

Contents  [hide] 
1 Literary genealogy
1.1 Aeneas in Virgil
2 Family and legendary descendants
3 Physical appearance
4 Literature, theatre and film
5 Family tree
6 See also
7 References
8 References
[edit]Literary genealogy



Aeneas carrying Anchises, black-figured oinochoe, ca. 520–510 BC, Louvre (F 118)
In the Iliad, Aeneas is a minor character, where he is twice saved from death by the gods as if for an as yet unknown destiny. He is the leader of the Trojans' Dardanian allies, as well as a third cousin and principal lieutenant of Hector, son of the Trojan king Priam. Aeneas' mother Aphrodite frequently comes to his aid on the battlefield; he is a favorite of Apollo. Aphrodite and Apollo rescue Aeneas from combat with Diomedes of Argos, who nearly kills him, and carry him away to Pergamos for healing. Even Poseidon, who normally favors the Greeks, comes to Aeneas' rescue after he falls under the assault of Achilles, noting that Aeneas, though from a junior branch of the royal family, is destined to become king of the Trojan people. He kills 28 people in the Trojan War, and his career during that war is retold by Roman historian Gaius Julius Hyginus (c. 64 BC – AD 17) in his Fabulae.[1]

The history of Aeneas is continued by Roman authors. building on different myths and histories. During Virgil's time Aeneas was well-known and various versions of his adventures were circulating in Rome, including Roman Antiquities by Greek historian Dionysius of Halicarnassus (relying on Marcus Terentius Varro, Ab Urbe Condita by Livy (probably dependent on Quintus Fabius Pictor, fl. 200 BCE), and Gnaeus Pompeius Trogus (through an epitome by Justin). Likewise important in Virgil's day was the account of Rome's founding in Cato the Elder's Origines.[2]

[edit]Aeneas in Virgil
As seen in the first books of the Aeneid, Aeneas is one of the few Trojans who were not killed in battle or enslaved when Troy fell. When Troy was sacked by the Greeks, Aeneas, after being commanded by the gods to flee, gathered a group, collectively known as the Aeneads, who then traveled to Italy and became progenitors of Romans. The Aeneads included Aeneas' trumpeter Misenus, his father Anchises, his friends Achates, Sergestus and Acmon, the healer Iapyx, the helmsman Palinurus, and his son Ascanius (also known as Iulus, Julus, or Ascanius Julius). He carried with him the Lares and Penates, the statues of the household gods of Troy, and transplanted them to Italy.



Aeneas tells Dido about the fall of Troy, by Pierre-Narcisse Guérin.
Several attempts to find a new home failed; one such stop was on Sicily where in Drepanum, on the island's western coast, his father, Anchises, died peacefully.

After a brief but fierce storm sent up against the group at Juno's request, Aeneas and his fleet made landfall at Carthage after six years of wanderings. Aeneas had a year-long affair with the Carthaginian queen Dido (also known as Elissa), who proposed that the Trojans settle in her land and that she and Aeneas reign jointly over their peoples. A marriage of sorts is arranged between Dido and Aeneas at the instigation of Juno, who was told of the fact that her favorite city would eventually be defeated by the Trojans' descendants, and Aeneas's mother Venus (the Roman adaptation of Aphrodite), who realizes that her son and his company need a temporary reprieve to reinforce themselves for the journey to come. However, the messenger god Mercury was sent by Jupiter and Venus to remind Aeneas of his journey and his purpose, compelling him to leave secretly. When Dido learned of this, Dido uttered a curse that would forever pit Carthage against Rome, an enmity that would culminate in the Punic Wars. She then committed suicide by stabbing herself with the same sword she gave Aeneas when they first met.

After the sojourn in Carthage, the Trojans returned to Sicily where Aeneas organizes funeral games to honor his father, who had died a year before. The company travels on and lands on the western coast of Italy. Aeneas descends into the underworld where he meets Dido (who turns away from him to return to her husband) and his father, who shows him the future of his descendents and thus the history of Rome.



Aeneas defeats Turnus, by Luca Giordano, 1634–1705. The genius of Aeneas is shown ascendant, looking into the light of the future, while that of Turnus is setting, shrouded in darkness.
Latinus, king of the Latins, welcomed Aeneas' army of exiled Trojans and let them reorganize their lives in Latium. His daughter Lavinia had been promised to Turnus, king of the Rutuli, but Latinus received a prophecy that Lavinia would be betrothed to one from another land — namely, Aeneas. Latinus heeded the prophecy, and Turnus consequently declared war on Aeneas at the urging of Juno, who was aligned with King Mezentius of the Etruscans and Queen Amata of the Latins. Aeneas's forces prevailed. Turnus was killed, and Virgil's account ends abruptly.

The rest of Aeneas's biography is gleaned from Livy: Aeneas was victorious but Latinus died in the war. Aeneas founded the city of Lavinium, named after his wife. He later welcomed Dido's sister, Anna Perenna, who then committed suicide after learning of Lavinia's jealousy. After Aeneas' death, Aphrodite asked Jupiter to make her son immortal. Jupiter agreed and the river god Numicus cleansed Aeneas of all his mortal parts and Aphrodite anointed him with Ambrosia and Nectar, making him a god. Aeneas was recognized as the god Jupiter Indiges.

[edit]Family and legendary descendants



Aeneas and the god Tiber, by Bartolomeo Pinelli.
Aeneas had an extensive family tree. His wet-nurse was Caieta, and he is the father of Ascanius with Creusa, and of Silvius with Lavinia. The former, also known as Iulus (or Julius), founded Alba Longa and was the first in a long series of kings. According to the mythology outlined by Virgil in the Aeneid, Romulus and Remus were both descendants of Aeneas through their mother Rhea Silvia, making Aeneas progenitor of the Roman people. Some early sources call him their father or grandfather,[3] but considering the commonly accepted dates of the fall of Troy (1184 BC) and the founding of Rome (753 BC), this seems unlikely. The Julian family of Rome, most notably Julius Cæsar and Augustus, traced their lineage to Ascanius and Aeneas, thus to the goddess Aphrodite. Through the Julians, the Palemonids make this claim. The legendary kings of Britain trace their family through a grandson of Aeneas, Brutus.

[edit]Physical appearance

In Virgil's Aeneid, Aeneas is described as strong and handsome, but his hair colour or complexion are not described.[4] In late antiquity however sources add further physical descriptions. The Daretis Phrygii de excidio Trojae historia of Dares Phrygius describes Aeneas as ‘‘auburn-haired, stocky, eloquent, courteous, prudent, pious, and charming.’’[5]

There is also a brief physical description found in John Malalas' Chronographia:

‘‘Aeneas: short, fat, with a good chest, powerful, with a ruddy complexion, a broad face,
a good nose, fair skin, bald on the forehead, a good beard, grey eyes.’’[6]

[edit]Literature, theatre and film

Aeneas is the subject of the French mediaeval romance Roman d'Enéas.

Aeneas is also a titular character in Henry Purcell's opera Dido and Aeneas (c. 1688), and one of the principal roles in Hector Berlioz' opera Les Troyens (c. 1857).

In modern literature, Aeneas appears in David Gemmell's Troy series as a main heroic character who goes by the name Helikaon.

Aeneas is a main character in Ursula K. Le Guin's Lavinia, a re-telling of the last six books of the Aeneid told from the point of view of Lavinia, daughter of King Latinus of Latium.

Aeneas is one of the mythical founders of the Ventrue Clan in the Role Playing game Vampire: the Requiem by White Wolf Game Studios.

Despite the many Hollywood elements, Aeneas has received little interest from the film industry. Portrayed by Steve Reeves, he was the main character in the 1961 sword-and-sandal peplum Guerra di Troia (The Trojan War). Reeves reprised the role the following year in the film The Avenger, about Aeneas's arrival in Latium and his conflicts with local tribes as he tries to settle his fellow Trojan refugees there.

The most recent cinematic portrayal of Aeneas was in the film Troy, in which he appears as a youth charged by Paris to protect the Trojan refugees, and to continue the ideals of the city and its people. It is at this point that Paris gives Aeneas Priam's sword, in order to give legitimacy and continuity to the Royal Line of Troy – and lay the foundations of Rome.

[edit]Family tree

 
 
 
Zeus/Jupiter	
 
Electra	
 
Teucer	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dardanus	
 
 
 
Batea
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Erichthonius	
 
 
Ilus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tros
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ilus	
 
 
 
Assaracus	
 
 
 
Ganymede
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Laomedon	
 
Themiste	
 
Capys
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Priam	
 
 
 
Anchises	
 
Aphrodite/Venus	
 
Latinus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Creusa	
 
 
 
 
 
Aeneas	
 
 
 
Lavinia
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ascanius	
 
 
 
 
 
Silvius
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Silvius	
 
 
 
Aeneas Silvius
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brutus of Britain	
 
 
Latinus Silvius
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alba
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Atys
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capys
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Capetus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tiberinus Silvius
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Agrippa
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Romulus Silvius
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aventinus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Procas
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Numitor	
 
Amulius
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Rhea Silvia	
 
Ares/Mars
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hersilia	
 
Romulus	
 
Remus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Kings of Rome
[edit]See also

Cumaean Sibyl
Lacrimae rerum
The Golden Bough

Raphèl maí amèche zabí almi
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
"Raphèl maí amèche zabí almi" is a verse from Dante's Inferno, XXXI.67. The verse is shouted out by Nimrod, one of the giants who guard the Ninth Circle of Hell. The line, whose literal meaning is uncertain (it is usually left untranslated as well), is usually interpreted as a sign of the confusion of the languages caused by the fall of the Tower of Babel.

[edit]Context, content

The biblical character Nimrod is portrayed as a giant in the Inferno, congruent with medieval traditions of giants.[1] That he is the biblical character also is indicated by the (hunter's) horn which hangs across his chest: Nimrod is "a mighty hunter before God". With other mythological giants, Nimrod forms a ring surrounding the central pit of Hell, a ring that Dante from a distance mistakes as a series of towers which he compares to those of Monteriggioni (40-45). When Nimrod speaks this, his only line in the poem, Virgil explains that "every language is to him the same / as his to others--no one knows his tongue" (80-81).

[edit]Interpretation

Early commentators of Dante generally agreed already that there was no possible translation.[2] Critics have noted, though, that there are possible comparisons with magic formulae, "with their mixtures of Hebrew-, Greek-, and Latin-looking words, and suggestions of angelic and demoniac names." Such formulae were often interspersed with psalms--Nimrod's line ends with almi, and its rhyme word in line 69 is salmi, "psalms".[3]

Later critics typically read the "senseless"[4] verse as a sign of incomprehensibility, of the tendency of poetic language to "displace language from the register of its ordinary operation".[5] The line is compared to "Papé Satàn, papé Satàn aleppe", another untranslatable verse from the Inferno (VII.1) spoken by an angry demon[3] (Plutus), both of which are, according to one critic, "intended primarily to represent the mental confusion brought about by the sin of pride."[6]

Denis Donoghue warns, however, that Virgil may be too quick with his criticism: "Virgil is not a patient critic, though his morality is impressive; he should have attended to the fury in Nimrod's words, if it is fury, and not to the words." Rather than "gibberish", Donoghue suggests it is "probably another version of King Lear's 'matter and impertinency mixed, reason in madness.'"[7][8] Eric Rabkin reads the line as an example of metalinguistic discourse (which treats "language as subject, material, [and] context"):

In saying "'He hath himself accused,'" Virgil is making Nimrod's language the subject of his own language; in creating this nonsense utterance, the poet Dante is using language as material to be shaped into his poem; and in having the incomprehensible statement made meaningful to Dante by his mentor-poet Virgil, the text elliptically comments on its own context, on its existence as poetry that has the effect of creating order and palpable reality even where such reality may to ordinary or unblessed mortals be unapparent.[9]

Dante Alighieri
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
"Dante" redirects here. For other uses, see Dante (disambiguation).
For the ship, see Italian battleship Dante Alighieri.
Dante Alighieri

Dante Alighieri, attributed to Giotto, in the chapel of the Bargello palace in Florence. This oldest picture of Dante was painted just prior to his exile and has since been heavily restored.
Born	Mid-May to mid-June c. 1265
Florence
Died	September 9, 1321 (aged about 56)
Ravenna
Occupation	Statesman, poet, language theorist
Nationality	Italian
Literary movement	Dolce Stil Novo
Influences[show]
Influenced[show]
Durante degli Alighieri, mononymously referred to as Dante (UK  /ˈdænti/, US /ˈdɑːnteɪ/; Italian: [ˈdante]; c. 1265–1321), was a major Italian poet of the Middle Ages. His Divine Comedy, originally called Commedia and later called Divina by Boccaccio, is considered the greatest literary work composed in the Italian language and a masterpiece of world literature.[1]

In Italy he is known as il Sommo Poeta ("the Supreme Poet") or just il Poeta. Dante, Petrarch, and Boccaccio are also known as "the three fountains" or "the three crowns". Dante is also called the "Father of the Italian language".[2]

Contents  [hide] 
1 Life
1.1 Education and poetry
1.2 Florence and politics
1.3 Exile and death
2 Works
3 References
4 Sources
5 External links
[edit]Life

Dante was born in Florence, Italy. The exact date of Dante's birth is unknown, although it is generally believed to be around 1265. This can be deduced from autobiographic allusions in La Divina Commedia. Its first section, the Inferno, begins "Nel mezzo del cammin di nostra vita" ("Halfway through the journey we are living"), implying that Dante was around 35 years old, as the average lifespan according to the Bible (Psalms 89:10, Vulgate) is 70 years; and as the imaginary travel took place in 1300, Dante must have been born around 1265. Some verses of the Paradiso section of the Divine Comedy also provide a possible clue that he was born under the sign of Gemini: "As I revolved with the eternal twins, I saw revealed from hills to river outlets, the threshing-floor that makes us so ferocious" (XXII 151-154). In 1265 the Sun was in Gemini approximately during the period of May 11 to June 11.[3]



Portrait of Dante, from a fresco in the Palazzo dei Giudici, Florence.
Dante claimed that his family descended from the ancient Romans (Inferno, XV, 76), but the earliest relative he could mention by name was Cacciaguida degli Elisei (Paradiso, XV, 135), of no earlier than about 1100. Dante's father, Alaghiero[4] or Alighiero di Bellincione, was a White Guelph who suffered no reprisals after the Ghibellines won the Battle of Montaperti in the middle of the 13th century. This suggests that Alighiero or his family enjoyed some protective prestige and status, although some suggest that the politically inactive Alighiero was of such low standing that he was not considered worth exiling.[citation needed]

Dante's family had loyalties to the Guelphs, a political alliance that supported the Papacy and which was involved in complex opposition to the Ghibellines, who were backed by the Holy Roman Emperor. The poet's mother was Bella, likely a member of the Abati family.[4] She died when Dante was not yet ten years old, and Alighiero soon married again, to Lapa di Chiarissimo Cialuffi. It is uncertain whether he really married her, as widowers had social limitations in these matters, but this woman definitely bore two children, Dante's half-brother Francesco and half-sister Tana (Gaetana). When Dante was 12, he was promised in marriage to Gemma di Manetto Donati, daughter of Manetto Donati, member of the powerful Donati family.[4] Contracting marriages at this early age was quite common and involved a formal ceremony, including contracts signed before a notary. Dante had by this time fallen in love with another, Beatrice Portinari (known also as Bice), whom he first met when he was nine years old. Years after his marriage to Gemma, he claims to have met Beatrice again; although he wrote several sonnets to Beatrice, he never mentioned his wife Gemma in any of his poems. The exact date of his marriage is not known: the only certain information is that, before his exile in 1301, Dante already had three children (Pietro, Jacopo and Antonia).[4]

Dante fought with the Guelph cavalry at the Battle of Campaldino (June 11, 1289). This victory brought about a reformation of the Florentine constitution. To take any part in public life, it was necessary to be enrolled in one of the city's many commercial or artisan guilds, so Dante entered the guild of physicians and apothecaries. In the following years, his name is occasionally found recorded as speaking or voting in the various councils of the republic. A substantial portion of minutes from such meetings from 1298-1300 were lost during World War II, however; consequently the true extent of Dante's participation in the city's councils is uncertain.

Dante had several children with Gemma. Several people subsequently claimed to be Dante's offspring; however, it is likely that Jacopo, Pietro, Giovanni and Antonia were truly his children. Antonia later became a nun with the name of Sister Beatrice.

[edit]Education and poetry
Not much is known about Dante's education, and it is presumed he studied at home or in a chapter school attached to a church or monastery in Florence. It is known that he studied Tuscan poetry, at a time when the Sicilian School (Scuola poetica Siciliana), a cultural group from Sicily, was becoming known in Tuscany. His interests brought him to discover the Provençal poetry of the troubadours and the Latin writers of classical antiquity, including Cicero, Ovid, and especially Virgil.



Statue of Dante at the Uffizi, Florence
Dante says that he first met Beatrice Portinari, daughter of Folco Portinari, at age nine, and he claims to have fallen in love "at first sight", apparently without even speaking to her. He saw her frequently after age 18, often exchanging greetings in the street, but he never knew her well; in effect, he set an example of so-called courtly love, a phenomenon developed in French and Provençal poetry of the preceding centuries. Dante's experience of such love was typical, but his expression of it was unique. It was in the name of this love that Dante gave his imprint to the Dolce Stil Novo (Sweet New Style, a term which Dante himself coined), and he would join other contemporary poets and writers in exploring the themes of Love (Amore), which had never been so emphasized before. Love for Beatrice (as in a different manner Petrarch would show for his Laura) would be his reason for poetry and for living, together with political passions. In many of his poems, she is depicted as semi-divine, watching over him constantly and providing spiritual instruction, sometimes harshly. When Beatrice died in 1290, Dante sought refuge in Latin literature. The Convivio reveals that he had read Boethius's De consolatione philosophiae and Cicero's De Amicitia. He then dedicated himself to philosophical studies at religious schools like the Dominican one in Santa Maria Novella. He took part in the disputes that the two principal mendicant orders (Franciscan and Dominican) publicly or indirectly held in Florence, the former explaining the doctrine of the mystics and of Saint Bonaventure, the latter presenting Saint Thomas Aquinas' theories.

At 18, Dante met Guido Cavalcanti, Lapo Gianni, Cino da Pistoia and soon after Brunetto Latini; together they became the leaders of the Dolce Stil Novo. Brunetto later received a special mention in the Divine Comedy (Inferno, XV, 28), for what he had taught Dante. Nor speaking less on that account, I go With Ser Brunetto, and I ask who are His most known and most eminent companions. Some fifty poetical components by Dante are known (the so-called Rime, rhymes), others being included in the later Vita Nuova and Convivio. Other studies are reported, or deduced from Vita Nuova or the Comedy, regarding painting and music.

[edit]Florence and politics
Dante, like most Florentines of his day, was embroiled in the Guelph-Ghibelline conflict. He fought in the Battle of Campaldino (June 11, 1289), with the Florentine Guelphs against Arezzo Ghibellines; then in 1294 he was among the escorts of Charles Martel of Anjou (grandson of Charles I of Naples, more commonly called Charles of Anjou) while he was in Florence. To further his political career, he became a pharmacist. He did not intend to practice as one, but a law issued in 1295 required that nobles who wanted public office had to be enrolled in one of the Corporazioni delle Arti e dei Mestieri, so Dante obtained admission to the apothecaries' guild. This profession was not inappropriate, since at that time books were sold from apothecaries' shops. As a politician, he accomplished little, but he held various offices over a number of years in a city undergoing political unrest.



Dante Alighieri, detail from Luca Signorelli's fresco, Chapel of San Brizio, Orvieto Cathedral.
After defeating the Ghibellines, the Guelphs divided into two factions: the White Guelphs (Guelfi Bianchi) — Dante's party, led by Vieri dei Cerchi — and the Black Guelphs (Guelfi Neri), led by Corso Donati. Although initially the split was along family lines, ideological differences arose based on opposing views of the papal role in Florentine affairs, with the Blacks supporting the Pope and the Whites wanting more freedom from Rome. Initially the Whites were in power, and they expelled the Blacks. In response, Pope Boniface VIII planned a military occupation of Florence. In 1301, Charles of Valois, brother of King Philip IV of France, was expected to visit Florence because the Pope had appointed him peacemaker for Tuscany. But the city's government had treated the Pope's ambassadors badly a few weeks before, seeking independence from papal influence. It was believed that Charles of Valois had received other unofficial instructions, so the council sent a delegation to Rome to ascertain the Pope's intentions. Dante was one of the delegates.

[edit]Exile and death
Pope Boniface quickly dismissed the other delegates and asked Dante alone to remain in Rome. At the same time (November 1, 1301), Charles of Valois entered Florence with the Black Guelphs, who in the next six days destroyed much of the city and killed many of their enemies. A new Black Guelph government was installed and Cante de' Gabrielli da Gubbio was appointed podestà of the city. Dante was condemned to exile for two years and ordered to pay a large fine. The poet was still in Rome where the Pope had "suggested" he stay; Dante was therefore considered an absconder. He did not pay the fine in part because he believed he was not guilty and in part because all his assets in Florence had been seized by the Black Guelphs. He was condemned to perpetual exile, and if he returned to Florence without paying the fine, he could be burned at the stake. (The city council of Florence finally passed a motion rescinding Dante's sentence in June 2008.[5])



A recreated death mask of Dante Alighieri in Palazzo Vecchio, Florence.
He took part in several attempts by the White Guelphs to regain power, but these failed due to treachery. Dante, bitter at the treatment he received from his enemies, also grew disgusted with the infighting and ineffectiveness of his erstwhile allies and vowed to become a party of one. Dante went to Verona as a guest of Bartolomeo I della Scala, then moved to Sarzana in Liguria. Later, he is supposed to have lived in Lucca with a lady called Gentucca, who made his stay comfortable (and was later gratefully mentioned in Purgatorio, XXIV, 37). Some speculative sources claim he visited Paris between 1308 and 1310 and others, even less trustworthy, take him to Oxford: these claims, first occurring in Boccaccio's book on Dante several decades after his death, seem inspired by readers being impressed with the poet's wide learning and erudition. Evidently Dante's command of philosophy and his literary interests deepened in exile, when he was no longer busy with the day-to-day business of Florentine domestic politics, and this is evidenced in his prose writings in this period, but there is no real indication that he ever left Italy. Dante's Immensa Dei dilectione testante to Henry VII of Luxembourg confirms his residence "beneath the springs of Arno, near Tuscany" in March 1311. In 1310, the Holy Roman Emperor Henry VII of Luxembourg marched 5,000 troops into Italy. Dante saw in him a new Charlemagne who would restore the office of the Holy Roman Emperor to its former glory and also re-take Florence from the Black Guelphs. He wrote to Henry and several Italian princes, demanding that they destroy the Black Guelphs. Mixing religion and private concerns, he invoked the worst anger of God against his city and suggested several particular targets that were also his personal enemies. It was during this time that he wrote De Monarchia, proposing a universal monarchy under Henry VII.



Statue of Dante in the Piazza di Santa Croce in Florence.
At some point during his exile, he conceived of the Comedy, but the date is uncertain. The work is much more assured and on a larger scale than anything he had produced in Florence; it is likely that he would have undertaken such a work only after he realized that his political ambitions, which had been central to him up to his banishment, had been halted for some time, possibly forever. It is also noticeable that Beatrice has returned to his imagination with renewed force and with a wider meaning than in the Vita Nuova; in Convivio (written c.1304–07) he had declared that the memory of this youthful romance belonged to the past.

An early outside indication that the poem was underway is a notice by Francesco da Barberino, tucked into his Documenti d'Amore (Lessons of Love), written probably in 1314 or early 1315; speaking of Virgil, Francesco notes in appreciative words that Dante followed the Roman classic in a poem called "Comedy" and that the setting of this poem (or part of it) was the underworld—that is, Hell.[6] The brief note gives no incontestable indication that he himself had seen or read even the Inferno or that this part had been published at the time, but it indicates that composition was well underway and that the sketching of the poem may likely have begun some years before. (It has been suggested that a knowledge of Dante's work also underlies some of the illuminations in Francesco da Barberino's earlier Officiolum [c. 1305–08], a manuscript that came to light only in 2003.[7]) We know that the Inferno had been published by 1317; this is established by quoted lines interspersed in the margins of contemporary dated records from Bologna, but there is no certainty whether the three parts of the poem were each published in full or a few cantos at a time. Paradiso seems to have been published posthumously.

In Florence, Baldo d'Aguglione pardoned most of the White Guelphs in exile and allowed them to return; however, Dante had gone too far in his violent letters to Arrigo (Henry VII), and the sentence on him was not recalled.

In 1312, Henry assaulted Florence and defeated the Black Guelphs, but there is no evidence that Dante was involved. Some say he refused to participate in the assault on his city by a foreigner; others suggest that he had become unpopular with the White Guelphs, too, and that any trace of his passage had carefully been removed. In 1313, Henry VII died (from fever), and with him any hope for Dante to see Florence again. He returned to Verona, where Cangrande I della Scala allowed him to live in a certain security and, presumably, in a fair amount of prosperity. Cangrande was admitted to Dante's Paradise (Paradiso, XVII, 76).

In 1315, Florence was forced by Uguccione della Faggiuola (the military officer controlling the town) to grant an amnesty to people in exile, including Dante. But Florence required that, as well as paying a steep sum of money, these exiles would do public penance. Dante refused, preferring to remain in exile. When Uguccione defeated Florence, Dante's death sentence was commuted to house arrest, on condition that he go to Florence to swear that he would never enter the town again. Dante refused to go. His death sentence was confirmed and extended to his sons. Dante still hoped late in life that he might be invited back to Florence on honorable terms. For Dante, exile was nearly a form of death, stripping him of much of his identity and his heritage. He addresses the pain of exile in Paradiso, XVII (55-60), where Cacciaguida, his great-great-grandfather, warns him what to expect:



Mural of Dante in the Uffizi Gallery, by Andrea del Castagno, c. 1450.
... Tu lascerai ogne cosa diletta	... You shall leave everything you love most:
più caramente; e questo è quello strale	this is the arrow that the bow of exile
che l'arco de lo essilio pria saetta.	shoots first. You are to know the bitter taste
Tu proverai sì come sa di sale	of others' bread, how salty it is, and know
lo pane altrui, e come è duro calle	how hard a path it is for one who goes
lo scendere e 'l salir per l'altrui scale ...	ascending and descending others' stairs ...
As for the hope of returning to Florence, he describes it as if he had already accepted its impossibility, (Paradiso, XXV, 1–9):

Se mai continga che 'l poema sacro	If it ever come to pass that the sacred poem
al quale ha posto mano e cielo e terra,	to which both heaven and earth have set their hand
sì che m'ha fatto per molti anni macro,	so as to have made me lean for many years
vinca la crudeltà che fuor mi serra	should overcome the cruelty that bars me
del bello ovile ov'io dormi' agnello,	from the fair sheepfold where I slept as a lamb,
nimico ai lupi che li danno guerra;	an enemy to the wolves that make war on it,
con altra voce omai, con altro vello	with another voice now and other fleece
ritornerò poeta, e in sul fonte	I shall return a poet and at the font
del mio battesmo prenderò 'l cappello ...	of my baptism take the laurel crown ...
Prince Guido Novello da Polenta invited him to Ravenna in 1318, and he accepted. He finished the Paradiso, and died in 1321 (at the age of 56) while returning to Ravenna from a diplomatic mission to Venice, possibly of malaria contracted there. Dante was buried in Ravenna at the Church of San Pier Maggiore (later called San Francesco). Bernardo Bembo, praetor of Venice built a tomb in 1483.



Dante's tomb in Ravenna, built in 1780.


Cenotaph in Basilica of Santa Croce, Florence.
On the grave, some verses of Bernardo Canaccio, a friend of Dante, dedicated to Florence:

parvi Florentia mater amoris
"Florence, mother of little love"
The first formal biography of Dante was the Vita di Dante (also known as Trattatello in laude di Dante) written after 1348 by Giovanni Boccaccio;[8] several statements and episodes of it are seen as unreliable by modern research. However, an earlier account of Dante's life and works had been included in the Nuova Cronica of the Florentine chronicler Giovanni Villani.[9]

Eventually, Florence came to regret Dante's exile, and the city made repeated requests for the return of his remains. The custodians of the body at Ravenna refused, at one point going so far as to conceal the bones in a false wall of the monastery. Nevertheless, in 1829, a tomb was built for him in Florence in the basilica of Santa Croce. That tomb has been empty ever since, with Dante's body remaining in Ravenna, far from the land he loved so dearly. The front of his tomb in Florence reads Onorate l'altissimo poeta—which roughly translates as "Honour the most exalted poet". The phrase is a quote from the fourth canto of the Inferno, depicting Virgil's welcome as he returns among the great ancient poets spending eternity in Limbo. The continuation of the line, L'ombra sua torna, ch'era dipartita ("his spirit, which had left us, returns"), is poignantly absent from the empty tomb.

In 2007, a reconstruction of Dante's face was completed in a collaborative project. Artists from Pisa University and engineers at the University of Bologna at Forli completed the revealing model, which indicated that Dante's features were somewhat different from what was once thought.[10][11]

[edit]Works

See also Works by Dante Alighieri
The Divine Comedy describes Dante's journey through Hell (Inferno), Purgatory (Purgatorio), and Paradise (Paradiso), guided first by the Roman poet Virgil and then by Beatrice, the subject of his love and of another of his works, La Vita Nuova. While the vision of Hell, the Inferno, is vivid for modern readers, the theological niceties presented in the other books require a certain amount of patience and knowledge to appreciate. Purgatorio, the most lyrical and human of the three, also has the most poets in it; Paradiso, the most heavily theological, has the most beautiful and ecstatic mystic passages in which Dante tries to describe what he confesses he is unable to convey (e.g., when Dante looks into the face of God: "all'alta fantasia qui mancò possa"—"at this high moment, ability failed my capacity to describe," Paradiso, XXXIII, 142).



Dante, poised between the mountain of purgatory and the city of Florence, displays the famous incipit Nel mezzo del cammin di nostra vita in a detail of Domenico di Michelino's painting, Florence 1465.
By its serious purpose, its literary stature and the range—both stylistically and in subject matter—of its content, the Comedy soon became a cornerstone in the evolution of Italian as an established literary language. Dante was more aware than most earlier Italian writers of the variety of Italian dialects and of the need to create a literature beyond the limits of Latin writing at the time, and a unified literary language; in that sense he is a forerunner of the renaissance with its effort to create vernacular literature in competition with earlier classical writers. Dante's in-depth knowledge (within the realms of the time) of Roman antiquity and his evident admiration for some aspects of pagan Rome also point forward to the 15th century. Ironically, while he was widely honoured in the centuries after his death, the Comedy slipped out of fashion among men of letters: too medieval, too rough and tragical and not stylistically refined in the respects that the high and late renaissance came to demand of literature.

He wrote the Comedy in a language he called "Italian", in some sense an amalgamated literary language mostly based on the regional dialect of Tuscany, with some elements of Latin and of the other regional dialects. The aim was to deliberately reach a readership throughout Italy, both laymen, clergymen and other poets. By creating a poem of epic structure and philosophic purpose, he established that the Italian language was suitable for the highest sort of expression. In French, Italian is sometimes nicknamed la langue de Dante. Publishing in the vernacular language marked Dante as one of the first (among others such as Geoffrey Chaucer and Giovanni Boccaccio) to break free from standards of publishing in only Latin (the language of liturgy, history, and scholarship in general, but often also of lyric poetry). This break set a precedent and allowed more literature to be published for a wider audience—setting the stage for greater levels of literacy in the future. However, unlike Boccaccio, Milton or Ariosto, Dante did not really become an author read all over Europe until the romantic era. To the romantics, Dante, like Homer and Shakespeare, was a prime example of the "original genius" who sets his own rules, creates persons of overpowering stature and depth and goes far beyond any imitation of the patterns of earlier masters and who, in turn, cannot really be imitated. Throughout the 19th century, Dante's reputation grew and solidified, and by the time of the 1865 jubilee, he had become solidly established as one of the greatest literary icons of the Western world.



Profile portrait of Dante, by Sandro Botticelli.
Readers often cannot understand how such a serious work may be called a "comedy". In Dante's time, all serious scholarly works were written in Latin (a tradition that would persist for several hundred years more, until the waning years of the Enlightenment) and works written in any other language were assumed to be more trivial in nature. Furthermore, the word "comedy" in the classical sense refers to works which reflect belief in an ordered universe, in which events not only tended towards a happy or "amusing" ending, but an ending influenced by a Providential will that orders all things to an ultimate good. By this meaning of the word, as Dante himself wrote in a letter to Cangrande I della Scala, the progression of the pilgrimage from Hell to Paradise is the paradigmatic expression of comedy, since the work begins with the pilgrim's moral confusion and ends with the vision of God.



Statue of Dante Alighieri in Verona.
Dante's other works include the Convivio ("The Banquet")[12] a collection of his longest poems with an (unfinished) allegorical commentary; Monarchia,[13] a summary treatise of political philosophy in Latin, which was condemned and burned after Dante's death[14][15] by the Papal Legate Bertrando del Poggetto, which argues for the necessity of a universal or global monarchy in order to establish universal peace in this life, and this monarchy's relationship to the Roman Catholic Church as guide to eternal peace; De vulgari eloquentia ("On the Eloquence of Vernacular"),[16] on vernacular literature, partly inspired by the Razos de trobar of Raimon Vidal de Bezaudun; and, La Vita Nuova ("The New Life"),[17] the story of his love for Beatrice Portinari, who also served as the ultimate symbol of salvation in the Comedy. The Vita Nuova contains many of Dante's love poems in Tuscan, which was not unprecedented; the vernacular had been regularly used for lyric works before, during all the thirteenth century. One of the most famous poems is Tanto gentile e tanto onesta pare, which many Italians can recite by heart. However, Dante's commentary on his own work is also in the vernacular—both in the Vita Nuova and in the Convivio—instead of the Latin that was almost universally used. References to Divina Commedia are in the format (book, canto, verse), e.g., (Inferno, XV, 76).

Inferno (Dante)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
"Dante's Inferno" redirects here. For other uses, see Dante's Inferno (disambiguation).


Gustave Doré's engravings illustrated the Divine Comedy (1861–1868); here Dante is lost in Canto 1 of the Inferno
This article is part of a series about
Dante's Divine Comedy
Inferno · Purgatorio · Paradiso
v t e
Inferno (Italian for "Hell") is the first part of Dante Alighieri's 14th-century epic poem Divine Comedy. It is followed by Purgatorio and Paradiso. It is an allegory telling of the journey of Dante through Hell, guided by the Roman poet Virgil. In the poem, Hell is depicted as nine circles of suffering located within the Earth. Allegorically, the Divine Comedy represents the journey of the soul towards God, with the Inferno describing the recognition and rejection of sin.[1]

Contents  [hide] 
1 Overview and vestibule of Hell
2 The nine circles of Hell
2.1 First Circle (Limbo)
2.2 Second Circle (Lust)
2.3 Third Circle (Gluttony)
2.4 Fourth Circle (Greed)
2.5 Fifth Circle (Anger)
2.6 Sixth Circle (Heresy)
2.7 Seventh Circle (Violence)
2.8 Eighth Circle (Fraud)
2.9 Ninth Circle (Treachery)
3 See also
4 Footnotes
5 External links
5.1 Texts
5.2 Secondary materials
[edit]Overview and vestibule of Hell

The poem begins on the day before Good Friday in the year 1300. The narrator, Dante himself, is thirty-five years old, and thus "halfway along our life's path" (Nel mezzo del cammin di nostra vita)—half of the Biblical life expectancy of seventy (Psalms 89:10, Vulgate). The poet finds himself lost in a dark wood in front of a mountain, assailed by three beasts (a lion, a lonza [rendered as "leopard" or "leopon"],[2] and a she-wolf) he cannot evade, and unable to find the "straight way" (diritta via)—also translatable as "right way"—to salvation. Conscious that he is ruining himself and that he is falling into a "deep place" (basso loco) where the sun is silent (l sol tace), Dante is at last rescued by the Roman poet Virgil, who claims to have been sent by Beatrice, and the two of them begin their journey to the underworld. Each sin's punishment in Inferno is a contrapasso, a symbolic instance of poetic justice; for example, fortune-tellers have to walk forward with their heads on backward, unable to see what is ahead, because they tried, through forbidden means, to look ahead to the future in life. Such a contrapasso "functions not merely as a form of divine revenge, but rather as the fulfilment of a destiny freely chosen by each soul during his or her life."[3]



The Barque of Dante by Eugène Delacroix
Dante passes through the gate of Hell, which bears an inscription, the ninth (and final) line of which is the famous phrase "Lasciate ogne speranza, voi ch'intrate", or "Abandon all hope, ye who enter here"[4]

Before entering Hell completely, Dante and his guide see the Uncommitted, souls of people who in life did nothing, neither for good nor evil (among these Dante recognizes either Pope Celestine V or Pontius Pilate; the text is ambiguous). Mixed with them are outcasts who took no side in the Rebellion of Angels. These souls are neither in Hell nor out of it, but reside on the shores of the Acheron, their punishment to eternally pursue a banner (i.e. self interest) while pursued by wasps and hornets that continually sting them while maggots and other such insects drink their blood and tears. This symbolizes the sting of their conscience and the repugnance of sin. This can also be seen as a reflection of the spiritual stagnation they lived in. As with the Purgatorio and Paradiso, the Inferno has a structure of 9+1=10, with this "vestibule" different in nature from the nine circles of Hell, and separated from them by the Acheron.

After passing through the "vestibule," Dante and Virgil reach the ferry that will take them across the river Acheron and to Hell proper. The ferry is piloted by Charon, who does not want to let Dante enter, for he is a living being. Virgil forces Charon to take him by means of another famous line Vuolsi così colà dove si puote, which translates to "So it is wanted there where the power lies," referring to the fact that Dante is on his journey on divine grounds. The wailing and blasphemy of the damned souls entering Charon's boat are a contrast to the joyful singing of the blessed souls arriving by ferry in the Purgatorio. However, the actual passage across the Acheron is undescribed since Dante faints and does not wake up until he is on the other side.

Virgil then guides Dante through the nine circles of Hell. The circles are concentric, representing a gradual increase in wickedness, and culminating at the centre of the earth, where Satan is held in bondage. Each circle's sinners are punished in a fashion fitting their crimes: each sinner is afflicted for all of eternity by the chief sin he committed. People who sinned but prayed for forgiveness before their deaths are found not in Hell but in Purgatory, where they labour to be free of their sins. Those in Hell are people who tried to justify their sins and are unrepentant.

Allegorically, the Inferno represents the Christian soul seeing sin for what it really is, and the three beasts represent three types of sin: the self-indulgent, the violent, and the malicious.[5] These three types of sin also provide the three main divisions of Dante's Hell: Upper Hell (the first 5 Circles) for the self-indulgent sins; Circles 6 and 7 for the violent sins; and Circles 8 and 9 for the malicious sins.

[edit]The nine circles of Hell



The Harrowing of Hell, in a 14th c. illuminated manuscript, the Petites Heures de Jean de Berry
[edit]First Circle (Limbo)
In Limbo reside the unbaptized and the virtuous pagans, who, though not sinful, did not accept Christ. Limbo shares many characteristics with the Asphodel Meadows; thus the guiltless damned are punished by living in a deficient form of Heaven. Without baptism ("the portal of the faith that you embrace"[6]) they lacked the hope for something greater than rational minds can conceive. Limbo includes green fields and a castle with seven gates to represent the seven virtues, the dwelling place of the wisest men of antiquity, including Virgil himself, as well as the Persian polymath Avicenna. In the castle Dante meets the poets Homer, Horace, Ovid, and Lucan, the Amazon queen Penthesilea, the mathematician Euclid, the scientist Pedanius Dioscorides, the statesman Cicero, the first doctor Hippocrates, the philosophers Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, Averroes and many others, including Julius Caesar in his role as Roman general ("in his armor, falcon-eyed"[7]), Hector, Electra, Camilla, Latinus, Lucius Junius Brutus, Lucretia, and Orpheus. Interestingly, he also sees Saladin in Limbo (Canto IV). Dante implies that all virtuous non-Christians find themselves here, although he later encounters two (Cato of Utica and Statius) in Purgatory and two (Trajan and Ripheus) in Heaven.

Beyond the first circle, all of those condemned for active, deliberately willed sin are judged by the serpentine Minos, who sentences each soul to one of the lower eight circles by wrapping his tail around himself a corresponding number of times (Minos initially hinders the poets' passage, until rebuked by Virgil). The lower circles are structured according to the classical (Aristotelian) conception of virtue and vice, so that they are grouped into the sins of wantonness, violence, and fraud (which for many commentators are represented by the leopard, lion, and she-wolf[8]). The sins of wantonness—weakness in controlling one's desires and natural urges—are the mildest among them, and, correspondingly, appear first, while the sins of violence and fraud appear lower down.

[edit]Second Circle (Lust)


Gianciotto Discovers Paolo and Francesca by Jean Auguste Dominique Ingres.
In the second circle of Hell are those overcome by lust. Dante condemns these "carnal malefactors"[9] for letting their appetites sway their reason. They are the first ones to be truly punished in Hell. These souls are blown back and forth by the terrible winds of a violent storm, without rest. This symbolizes the power of lust to blow one about needlessly and aimlessly.

In this circle, Dante sees Semiramis, Dido, Cleopatra, Helen of Troy, Achilles, Paris, Tristan, and many others who were overcome by sensual love during their life. Dante is told by Francesca da Rimini how she and her husband's brother Paolo Malatesta committed adultery, but then died a violent death, in the name of Love, at the hands of her husband, Giovanni (Gianciotto). Francesca reports that their act of adultery was triggered by reading the adulterous story of Lancelot and Guinevere (an episode sculpted by Auguste Rodin in The Kiss). Nevertheless, she predicts that her husband will be punished for his fratricide in Caina, within the ninth circle (Canto V).

The English poet John Keats, in his sonnet "On a Dream," imagines what Dante does not give us, the point of view of Paolo:

"... But to that second circle of sad hell,
Where ‘mid the gust, the whirlwind, and the flaw
Of rain and hail-stones, lovers need not tell
Their sorrows. Pale were the sweet lips I saw,
Pale were the lips I kiss’d, and fair the form
I floated with, about that melancholy storm."[10]

[edit]Third Circle (Gluttony)


The third circle, illustrated by Stradanus.


Cerberus as illustrated by Gustave Doré.
The "Great Worm" Cerberus guards the gluttons, forced to lie in a vile slush produced by ceaseless foul, icy rain (Virgil obtains safe passage past the monster by filling its three mouths with mud). In her notes on this circle, Dorothy L. Sayers writes that "the surrender to sin which began with mutual indulgence leads by an imperceptible degradation to solitary self-indulgence."[11] The gluttons lie here sightless and heedless of their neighbors, symbolizing the cold, selfish, and empty sensuality of their lives.[11] Just as lust has revealed its true nature in the winds of the previous circle, here the slush reveals the true nature of sensuality – which includes not only overindulgence in food and drink, but also other kinds of addiction.[12]

In this circle, Dante converses with a Florentine contemporary identified as Ciacco, which means "hog."[13] A character with the same nickname later appears in The Decameron of Giovanni Boccaccio.[14] Ciacco speaks to Dante regarding strife in Florence between the "White" and "Black" Guelphs. In one of a number of prophecies in the poem, Ciacco "predicts" the expulsion of the White party, to which Dante belonged, and which led to Dante's own exile. This event occurred in 1302, after the date in which the poem is set, but before the poem was written[13] (Canto VI).

[edit]Fourth Circle (Greed)


In Gustave Doré's illustrations for the fourth circle, the weights are huge money bags.
Those whose attitude toward material goods deviated from the appropriate mean are punished in the fourth circle. They include the avaricious or miserly (including many "clergymen, and popes and cardinals"[15]), who hoarded possessions, and the prodigal, who squandered them. The two groups are guarded by a figure Dante names as Pluto, either Pluto the classical ruler of the underworld or Plutus the Greek god of wealth[16] (who uses the cryptic phrase Papé Satàn, papé Satàn aleppe), but Virgil protects Dante from him. The two groups joust, using as weapons great weights which they push with their chests:

"… I saw multitudes
to every side of me; their howls were loud
while, wheeling weights, they used their chests to push.
They struck against each other; at that point,
each turned around and, wheeling back those weights,
cried out: Why do you hoard? Why do you squander?' "[17]

The contrast between these two groups leads Virgil to discourse on the nature of Fortune, who raises nations to greatness, and later plunges them into poverty, as she shifts "those empty goods from nation unto nation, clan to clan."[18] This speech fills what would otherwise be a gap in the poem, since both groups are so absorbed in their activity that Virgil tells Dante that it would be pointless to try to speak to them – indeed, they have lost their individuality, and been rendered "unrecognizable"[19] (Canto VII).

[edit]Fifth Circle (Anger)


The fifth circle, illustrated by Stradanus.


Lower Hell, inside the walls of Dis, in an illustration by Stradanus. There is a drop from the sixth circle to the three rings of the seventh circle, then again to the ten rings of the eighth circle, and, at the bottom, to the icy ninth circle.
In the swamp-like water of the river Styx, the wrathful fight each other on the surface, and the sullen lie gurgling beneath the water, withdrawn "into a black sulkiness which can find no joy in God or man or the universe."[20] Phlegyas reluctantly transports Dante and Virgil across the Styx in his skiff. On the way they are accosted by Filippo Argenti, a Black Guelph from a prominent family. When Dante was forced to leave Florence, Argenti took all his property. When Dante responds "In weeping and in grieving, accursed spirit, may you long remain,"[21] Virgil blesses him. Literally, this reflects the fact that souls in Hell are eternally fixed in the state they have chosen, but allegorically, it reflects Dante's beginning awareness of his own sin[22] (Cantos VII and VIII).

The lower parts of Hell are contained within the walls of the city of Dis, which is itself surrounded by the Stygian marsh. Punished within Dis are active (rather than passive) sins. The walls of Dis are guarded by fallen angels. Virgil is unable to convince them to let Dante and him enter, and the Furies (consisting of Alecto, Megaera, and Tisiphone) and Medusa threaten Dante. An angel sent from Heaven secures entry for the poets, opening the gate by touching it with a wand, and rebuking those who opposed Dante. Allegorically, this reveals the fact that the poem is beginning to deal with sins that philosophy and humanism cannot fully understand. Virgil also mentioned to Dante on how Erichtho sent him down to the lowest circle of Hell to bring back a spirit from there.[22] (Cantos VIII and IX).

[edit]Sixth Circle (Heresy)
In the sixth circle, Heretics, such as Epicureans (who say "the soul dies with the body"[23]) are trapped in flaming tombs. Dante holds discourse with a pair of Epicurian Florentines in one of the tombs: Farinata degli Uberti, a Ghibelline (posthumously condemned for heresy in 1283); and Cavalcante de' Cavalcanti, a Guelph, who was the father of Dante's friend and fellow poet Guido Cavalcanti. The political affiliation of these two men allows for a further discussion of Florentine politics (Canto X). Also seen here are Epicurus, Emperor Frederick II, and Pope Anastasius II.

In response to a question from Dante about the "prophecy" he has received, Farinata explains that what the souls in Hell know of life on earth comes from seeing the future, not from any observation of the present. Consequently, when "the portal of the future has been shut,"[24] it will no longer be possible for them to know anything.

Pausing for a moment before the steep descent to the foul-smelling seventh circle, Virgil explains the geography and rationale of Lower Hell, in which violent and malicious sins are punished. In this explanation, he refers to the Nicomachean Ethics and the Physics of Aristotle (Canto XI). In particular, he asserts that there are only two legitimate sources of wealth: natural resources ("nature") and human activity ("art"). Usury, to be punished in the next circle, is therefore an offence against both:[25]

"From these two, art and nature, it is fitting,
if you recall how Genesis begins,
for men to make their way, to gain their living;
and since the usurer prefers another
pathway, he scorns both nature in herself
and art her follower; his hope is elsewhere."[26]

[edit]Seventh Circle (Violence)
The seventh circle houses the violent. Its entry is guarded by the Minotaur, and it is divided into three rings:

Outer ring: This ring houses the violent against people and property, who are immersed in Phlegethon, a river of boiling blood and fire, to a level commensurate with their sins: Alexander the Great is immersed up to his eyebrows, although Dante praises Alexander at other points in the poem, meaning he might be referring to a different Alexander. Dionysius I of Syracuse, Azzolino da Romano, Guy de Montfort, Obizzo d'Este, Ezzelino III da Romano, Rinier da Corneto, and Rinier Pazzo are also seen in the Phlegethon as well as references to Atilla the Hun. The Centaurs, commanded by Chiron and Pholus, patrol the ring, shooting arrows into any sinners who emerge higher out of the river than each is allowed. The centaur Nessus guides the poets along Phlegethon and across a ford in the widest, shallowest stretch of the river (Canto XII). This passage may have been influenced by the early medieval Visio Karoli Grossi.[27]


The Gianfigliazzi family was identified by a heraldic device of a lion (blue on yellow background).
Middle ring: In this ring are the suicides (the violent against self), who are transformed into gnarled thorny bushes and trees and then fed upon by Harpies. Dante breaks a twig off one of the bushes and from the broken, bleeding, branch hears the tale of Pietro della Vigne, who committed suicide after falling out of favour with Emperor Frederick II (his presence here, rather than in the ninth circle, indicates that Dante believes that the accusations made against him were false[28]). Also here are Lano da Siena and Jacopo da Sant' Andrea. The trees are a metaphor for the state of mind in which suicide is committed.[29] Dante learns that these suicides, unique among the dead, will not be corporally resurrected after the final judgement since they gave away their bodies through suicide. Instead they will maintain their bushy form, with their own corpses hanging from the thorny limbs. The other residents of this ring are the profligates, who destroyed their lives by destroying the means by which life is sustained (i.e. money and property). They are perpetually chased and mauled by ferocious dogs; the destruction wrought upon the wood by the profligates' flight and punishment as they crash through the undergrowth causes further suffering to the suicides, who cannot move out of the way (Canto XIII).
Inner ring: Here the violent against God (blasphemers) and the violent against nature (sodomites and, as explained in the sixth circle, usurers) all reside in a desert of flaming sand with fiery flakes raining from the sky (a similar fate to Sodom and Gomorrah). The blasphemers lie on the sand, the usurers sit, and the sodomites wander about in groups. Dante sees the classical warrior Capaneus there, who for blasphemy against Zeus was struck down with a thunderbolt during the Siege of Thebes. Dante converses with two Florentine sodomites from different groups. One of them is Dante's mentor, Brunetto Latini. Dante is very surprised and touched by this encounter and shows Brunetto great respect for what he has taught him ("you taught me how man makes himself eternal; / and while I live, my gratitude for that / must always be apparent in my words"[30]), thus refuting suggestions that Dante only placed his enemies in Hell.[31] The other sodomite is Iacopo Rusticucci, a politician, who blames his wife for his fate. Those punished here for usury include the Florentines Catello di Rosso Gianfigliazzi, Guido Guerra, Iacopo Rusticucci, Ciappo Ubriachi, and Giovanni di Buiamonte; and the Paduans Reginaldo degli Scrovegni and Vitaliano di Iacopo Vitaliani. They are identified not primarily by name, but by heraldic devices emblazoned on the purses around their necks – purses which "their eyes seemed to feast upon"[32] (Cantos XIV through XVII).
[edit]Eighth Circle (Fraud)


A Gustave Doré wood engraving of Geryon.
The last two circles of Hell punish sins that involve conscious fraud or treachery. These circles can be reached only by descending a vast cliff, which Dante and Virgil do on the back of Geryon, a winged monster traditionally represented as having three heads or three conjoined bodies,[33] but described by Dante as having three mixed natures: human, bestial, and reptilian.[33] Geryon is an image of fraud, having the face of an honest man on the body of a beautifully colored wyvern, with the furry paws of a lion and a poisonous sting in the pointy snake-like tail[34] (Canto XVII).



Jason and Medea, by John William Waterhouse (1907).


Dante's guide rebuffs Malacoda and his fiends between Bolgie 5 and 6, Canto 21.


Dante climbs the flinty steps in Bolgia 7, Canto 26.
The fraudulent—those guilty of deliberate, knowing evil—are located in a circle named Malebolge ("Evil Pockets"), divided into ten Bolgie, or ditches of stone, with bridges spanning the ditches:

Bolgia 1: Panderers and seducers march in separate lines in opposite directions, whipped by demons (Dante makes reference here to a recent traffic rule developed for the Jubilee year of 1300 in Rome: keep to the right[35]). Just as the panderers and seducers used the passions of others to drive them to do their bidding, they are themselves driven by demons to march for all eternity.[35] In the group of panderers, the poets notice Venedico Caccianemico, who sold his own sister to the Marchese d'Este. In the group of seducers, Virgil points out Jason who gained the help of Medea by seducing and marrying her only to later desert her for Creusa.[35] Jason also seduced Hypsipyle, but "abandoned her, alone and pregnant"[36] (Canto XVIII).
Bolgia 2: Flatterers also exploited other people, this time using language. They are steeped in human excrement, which represents the words they produced. Alessio Interminei of Lucca and Thaïs are seen here.[35] (Canto XVIII).
Bolgia 3: Dante now forcefully expresses[37] his condemnation of those who committed simony. Those who committed simony are placed head-first in holes in the rock (resembling baptismal fonts), with flames burning on the soles of their feet. One of the simoniacs, Pope Nicholas III, denounces two of his successors, Pope Boniface VIII and Pope Clement V, for the same offence. Simon Magus, who offered gold in exchange for holy power to Saint Peter, is also seen here. The simile of baptismal fonts gives Dante an incidental opportunity to clear his name of an accusation of malicious damage to the font in the church of San Giovanni dei Fiorentini[38] (Canto XIX).
Bolgia 4: Sorcerers, astrologers, and false prophets here have their heads twisted around on their bodies backward, so that they "found it necessary to walk backward, / because they could not see ahead of them."[39] While referring primarily to attempts to see into the future by forbidden means, this also symbolises the twisted nature of magic in general.[40] In this Bolgia, Dante sees Amphiaraus, Tiresias (whose double transformation was also referenced), Tiresias' daughter Manto, Aruns, Michael Scot, Alberto de Casalodi, and Guido Bonatti, among others (Canto XX).
Bolgia 5: Corrupt politicians (barrators) are immersed in a lake of boiling pitch, which represents the sticky fingers and dark secrets of their corrupt deals.[41] The barrators are the political analogue of the simoniacs, and Dante devotes several cantos to them. They are guarded by devils called the Malebranche ("Evil Claws"), who provide some savage and satirical black comedy--in the last line of Canto XXI, the sign for their march is provided by a fart: "and he had made a trumpet of his ass."[42] The leader of the Malebranche, Malacoda ("Evil Tail"), assigns a troop to escort Virgil and Dante safely to the next bridge. The troop hook and torment one of the sinners (identified by early commentators as Ciampolo), who names some Italian grafters and then tricks the Malebranche in order to escape back into the pitch. The promise of safe conduct the poets have received from the demons turns out to have limited value (and there is no "next bridge"[43]), so that the poets are forced to scramble down into the sixth Bolgia (Cantos XXI through XXIII).
Bolgia 6: In the sixth Bolgia, the poets find the hypocrites listlessly walking along wearing gilded lead cloaks, which represent the falsity behind the surface appearance of their actions – falsity that weighs them down and makes spiritual progress impossible for them.[43] Dante speaks with Catalano and Loderingo, two members of the Jovial Friars, an order which had acquired a reputation for not living up to its vows,[43] and which was eventually suppressed by Pope Sixtus V. Caiaphas, the high priest responsible for ordering Jesus crucified, is also seen here, crucified to the ground and trampled (Canto XXIII).
Bolgia 7: Two cantos are devoted to the thieves, who are guarded by the centaur Cacus who has a fire-breathing dragon on his shoulders and snakes covering his equine back (in Roman mythology, Cacus was not a centaur but a monstrous fire-breathing giant slain by Heracles). The thieves are pursued and bitten by snakes and lizards. The full horror of the thieves' punishment is revealed gradually: just as they stole other people's substance in life, their very identity becomes subject to theft here,[44] and the snake bites make them undergo various transformations. Vanni Fucci is turned to ashes and resurrected. Agnello is blended with the six-legged reptile that is Cianfa. Buoso exchanges shapes with the four-legged Francesco: "The soul that had become an animal, / now hissing, hurried off along the valley; / the other one, behind him, speaks and spits."[45] (Cantos XXIV and XXV).
Bolgia 8: Two further cantos are devoted to the fraudulent advisers or evil counsellors, who are concealed within individual flames. These are not people who gave false advice, but people who used their position to advise others to engage in fraud.[46] Ulysses and Diomedes are condemned here for the deception of the Trojan Horse. Ulysses also tells the tale of his fatal final voyage (an invention of Dante's) where he left his home and family to sail to the end of the Earth only to have his ship founder near Mount Purgatory. Ulysses also mentions of his encounter with Circe stating that she "beguiled him." Guido da Montefeltro recounts how he advised Pope Boniface VIII to capture the fortress of Palestrina, by offering the Colonna family inside it a false amnesty, and then razing it to the ground after they surrendered. Guido became a Franciscan in 1296, and died two years later. Guido describes St. Francis as coming to take his soul to Heaven, only to have a demon assert prior claim. Although Boniface had absolved Guido in advance for his evil advice, Dante points out the invalidity of that, since absolution requires contrition, and a man cannot be contrite for a sin at the same time that he is intending to commit it[47] (Cantos XXVI and XXVII).
Bolgia 9: In the ninth Bolgia, a sword-wielding demon hacks at the Sowers of Discord, dividing parts of their bodies as in life they divided others.[48] As they make their rounds the wounds heal, only to have the demon tear apart their bodies again. Dante encounters Muhammad, who tells him to warn the schismatic and heretic Fra Dolcino. Dante describes Muhammad as a schismatic,[48][49] apparently viewing Islam as an off-shoot from Christianity, and similarly Dante seems to condemn Ali for schism between Sunni and Shiite (for more on Dante's relationship to Islam, see the relevant section of the main article). In this Bolgia, Dante also encounters Bertran de Born, who carries around his severed head like a lantern (a literal representation allowing himself to detach his intelligence from himself), as a punishment for (Dante believes) fomenting the rebellion of Henry the Young King against his father Henry II (Cantos XXVIII and XXIX).
Bolgia 10: In the final Bolgia, various sorts of falsifiers (alchemists, counterfeiters, perjurers, and imposters), who are a "disease" on society, are themselves afflicted with different types of diseases.[50] Potiphar's wife is briefly mentioned here for her false accusation of Joseph. The Achaean spy Sinon is here for tricking the Trojans into taking the Trojan Horse into their city (Sinon is here rather than in Bolgia 8 because his advice was false as well as evil) and suffers from a burning fever. Gianni Schicchi is a 'rabid goblin' for forging the will of Dante's relative Buoso Donati. Myrrha is here for disguising herself to commit incest with her father King Theias and suffers from madness. In the notes on her translation, Sayers remarks that the descent through Malebolge "began with the sale of the sexual relationship, and went on to the sale of Church and State; now, the very money is itself corrupted, every affirmation has become perjury, and every identity a lie";[50] so that every aspect of social interaction has been progressively destroyed (Cantos XXIX and XXX).
[edit]Ninth Circle (Treachery)


Titans and giants, including Ephialtes on the left, in Gustave Doré's illustrations to Dante's Divine Comedy.


Dante speaks to the traitors in the ice, Canto 32.
The ninth and last circle is ringed by classical and Biblical giants, who perhaps symbolize pride and other spiritual flaws lying behind acts of treachery.[51] The giants are standing on a ledge above the ninth circle of Hell,[52] so that from the Malebolge they are visible from the waist up. They include Nimrod, as well as Ephialtes (who with his brother Otus tried to storm Olympus during the Gigantomachy), Briareus, Tityos, and Typhon. The giant Antaeus (being the only giant unbound with chains) lowers Dante and Virgil into the pit that forms the ninth circle of Hell (Canto XXXI).

The traitors are distinguished from the "merely" fraudulent in that their acts involve betraying a special relationship of some kind. There are four concentric zones (or "rounds") of traitors, corresponding, in order of seriousness, to betrayal of family ties, betrayal of community ties, betrayal of guests, and betrayal of liege lords. In contrast to the popular image of Hell as fiery, the traitors are frozen in a lake of ice known as Cocytus, with each group encased in ice to progressively greater depths.

Round 1 is named Caïna, after Cain, who killed his brother. Traitors to kindred are here immersed in the ice up to their faces – "the place / where shame can show itself"[53] Mordred, who attacked his uncle/father King Arthur, is one of the traitors here: "him who, at one blow, had chest and shadow / shattered by Arthur's hand"[54] (Canto XXXII).
Round 2 is named Antenora, after Antenor of Troy, who according to medieval tradition, betrayed his city to the Greeks. Traitors to political entities, such as parties, cities, or countries, are located here. Count Ugolino pauses from gnawing on the head of his former partner-in-crime Archbishop Ruggieri degli Ubaldini to describe how Ruggieri turned against him after an accidental death of Ruggieri's illegitimate son during a riot and had him imprisoned along with his sons and grandsons, condemning them to death by starvation. A number of correspondences, such as allusions to the same passage of the Aeneid, link this passage to the story of Paolo and Francesca in the second circle,[55] indicating that this icy hell of betrayal is the final result of consent to sin[55] (Cantos XXXII and XXXIII).
Round 3 is named Ptolomaea, probably after Ptolemy, son of Abubus, who invited Simon Maccabaeus and his sons to a banquet and then killed them.[55] Traitors to their guests are punished here, lying supine in the ice, which covers them, except for their faces. They are punished more severely than the previous traitors, since the relationship to guests is an entirely voluntary one.[56] Fra Alberigo, who had armed soldiers kill his brother at a banquet, explains that sometimes a soul falls here before Atropos cuts the thread of life. Their bodies on Earth are immediately possessed by a demon, so what seems to be a walking man has reached the stage of being incapable of repentance (Canto XXXIII).
Round 4 is named Judecca, after Judas Iscariot, Biblical betrayer of Christ. Here are the traitors to their lords and benefactors. All of the sinners punished within are completely encapsulated in ice, distorted in all conceivable positions. With no one to talk to here, Dante and Virgil quickly move on to the centre of Hell (Canto XXXIV).


Satan is trapped in the frozen central zone in the Ninth Circle of Hell, Canto 34.
In the very centre of Hell, condemned for committing the ultimate sin (personal treachery against God), is Satan. Satan is described as a giant, terrifying beast with three faces, one red, one black, and one a pale yellow:

he had three faces: one in front bloodred;
and then another two that, just above
the midpoint of each shoulder, joined the first;
and at the crown, all three were reattached;
the right looked somewhat yellow, somewhat white;
the left in its appearance was like those
who come from where the Nile, descending, flows.[57]

Satan is waist deep in ice, weeping tears from his six eyes, and beating his six wings as if trying to escape, although the icy wind that emanates only further ensures his imprisonment (as well as that of the others in the ring). Each face has a mouth that chews on a prominent traitor, with Brutus and Cassius feet-first in the left and right mouths respectively. These men were involved in the assassination of Julius Caesar—an act which, to Dante, represented the destruction of a unified Italy and the killing of the man who was divinely appointed to govern the world.[58] In the central, most vicious mouth is Judas Iscariot—the namesake of Judecca and the betrayer of Jesus. Judas is being administered the most horrifying torture of the three traitors, his head gnawed by Satan's mouth, and his back being forever skinned by Satan's claws. What is seen here is an inverted trinity: Satan is impotent, ignorant, and full of hate, in contrast to the all-powerful, all-knowing, and loving nature of God.[58]

The two poets escape Hell by climbing down Satan's ragged fur, passing through the centre of the earth (with a consequent change in the direction of gravity, causing Dante to at first think they are returning to Hell), and they emerge in the other hemisphere (described in the Purgatorio) just before dawn on Easter Sunday, beneath a sky studded with stars (Canto XXXIV).

[edit]See also

Allegory in the Middle Ages
Dante and his Divine Comedy in popular culture
Dante's Satan
Divine Comedy
List of cultural references in The Divine Comedy
Paradiso
Purgatorio

Divine Comedy
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
"The Divine Comedy" redirects here. For other uses, see The Divine Comedy (disambiguation).
"La commedia" redirects here. For other uses, see Commedia (disambiguation).


Dante shown holding a copy of the Divine Comedy, next to the entrance to Hell, the seven terraces of Mount Purgatory and the city of Florence, with the spheres of Heaven above, in Michelino's fresco
This article is part of a series about
Dante's Divine Comedy
Inferno · Purgatorio · Paradiso
v t e
The Divine Comedy (Italian: Divina Commedia) is an epic poem written by Dante Alighieri between 1308 and his death in 1321. It is widely considered the preeminent work of Italian literature,[1] and is seen as one of the greatest works of world literature.[2] The poem's imaginative and allegorical vision of the afterlife is a culmination of the medieval world-view as it had developed in the Western Church. It helped establish the Tuscan dialect, in which it is written, as the standardized Italian language.[3] It is divided into three parts: Inferno, Purgatorio, and Paradiso.

On the surface, the poem describes Dante's travels through Hell, Purgatory, and Heaven;[4] but at a deeper level, it represents allegorically the soul's journey towards God.[5] At this deeper level, Dante draws on medieval Christian theology and philosophy, especially Thomistic philosophy and the Summa Theologica of Thomas Aquinas.[6] Consequently, the Divine Comedy has been called "the Summa in verse."[7]

The work was originally simply titled Comedìa and was later christened Divina by Giovanni Boccaccio. The first printed edition to add the word divine to the title was that of the Venetian humanist Lodovico Dolce,[8] published in 1555 by Gabriele Giolito de' Ferrari.

Contents  [hide] 
1 Structure and story
1.1 Inferno
1.2 Purgatorio
1.3 Paradiso
2 Earliest manuscripts
3 Thematic concerns
3.1 Dante's personal involvement
3.2 Scientific themes
4 Islamic philosophy
5 Literary influence in the English-speaking world and beyond
6 In the arts
7 See also
8 Footnotes
9 External links
[edit]Structure and story



Detail of a manuscript in Milan's Biblioteca Trivulziana (MS 1080), written in 1337 by Francesco di ser Nardo da Barberino, showing the beginning of Dante's Comedy
The Divine Comedy is composed of 14,233 lines that are divided into three canticas (Ital. pl. cantiche)—Inferno (Hell), Purgatorio (Purgatory), and Paradiso (Paradise)—each consisting of 33 cantos (Ital. pl. canti). An initial canto serves as an introduction to the poem and is generally considered to be part of the first cantica, bringing the total number of cantos to 100. It is generally accepted, however, that the first two cantos serve as a unitary prologue to the entire epic, as well as the opening two cantos of each cantica serving as a prologue to each of the three cantiche.[9][10][11] The number three is prominent in the work, represented here by the length of each cantica. The verse scheme used, terza rima, is hendecasyllabic (lines of eleven syllables), with the lines composing tercets according to the rhyme scheme aba, bcb, cdc, ded, ....

The poem is written in the first person, and tells of Dante's journey through the three realms of the dead, lasting from the night before Good Friday to the Wednesday after Easter in the spring of 1300. The Roman poet Virgil guides him through Hell and Purgatory; Beatrice, Dante's ideal woman, guides him through Heaven. Beatrice was a Florentine woman whom he had met in childhood and admired from afar in the mode of the then-fashionable courtly love tradition which is highlighted in Dante's earlier work La Vita Nuova.

The structure of the three realms follows a common numerical pattern of 9 plus 1 for a total of 10: 9 circles of the Inferno, followed by Lucifer contained at its bottom; 9 rings of Mount Purgatory, followed by the Garden of Eden crowning its summit; and the 9 celestial bodies of Paradiso, followed by the Empyrean containing the very essence of God. Within the 9, 7 correspond to a specific moral scheme, subdividing itself into three subcategories, while two others of more particularity are added on for a completion of nine. For example, the seven deadly sins of the Catholic Church that are cleansed in Purgatory are joined by special realms for the Late repentant and the excommunicated by the church. The core seven sins within purgatory correspond to a moral scheme of love perverted, subdivided into three groups corresponding to excessive love (Lust, Gluttony, Greed), deficient love (Sloth), and malicious love (Wrath, Envy, Pride).

In central Italy's political struggle between Guelphs and Ghibellines, Dante was part of the Guelphs, who in general favored the Papacy over the Holy Roman Emperor. Florence's Guelphs split into factions around 1300, the White Guelphs, and the Black Guelphs. Dante was among the White Guelphs who were exiled in 1302 by the Lord-Mayor Cante de' Gabrielli di Gubbio, after troops under Charles of Valois entered the city, at the request of Pope Boniface VIII, who supported the Black Guelphs. This exile, which lasted the rest of Dante's life, shows its influence in many parts of the Comedy, from prophecies of Dante's exile to Dante's views of politics to the eternal damnation of some of his opponents.[citation needed]

In Hell and Purgatory, Dante shares in the sin and the penitence respectively. The last word in each of the three parts of the Divine Comedy is stelle, "stars."

[edit]Inferno


Gustave Doré's engravings illustrated the Divine Comedy (1861–1868); here Charon comes to ferry souls across the river Acheron to Hell.
Main article: Inferno (Dante)
The poem begins on the night before Good Friday in the year 1300, "halfway along our life's path" (Nel mezzo del cammin di nostra vita). Dante is thirty-five years old, half of the biblical life expectancy of 70 (Psalms 90:10), lost in a dark wood (understood as sin[12][13][14]), assailed by beasts (a lion, a leopard, and a she-wolf) he cannot evade, and unable to find the "straight way" (diritta via) – also translatable as "right way" – to salvation (symbolized by the sun behind the mountain). Conscious that he is ruining himself and that he is falling into a "deep place" (basso loco) where the sun is silent ('l sol tace), Dante is at last rescued by Virgil, and the two of them begin their journey to the underworld. Each sin's punishment in Inferno is a contrapasso, a symbolic instance of poetic justice; for example, fortune-tellers have to walk with their heads on backwards, unable to see what is ahead, because that was what they had tried to do in life:

they had their faces twisted toward their haunches
and found it necessary to walk backward,
because they could not see ahead of them.
... and since he wanted so to see ahead,
he looks behind and walks a backward path.[15]

Allegorically, the Inferno represents the Christian soul seeing sin for what it really is, and the three beasts represent three types of sin: the self-indulgent, the violent, and the malicious.[16] These three types of sin also provide the three main divisions of Dante's Hell: Upper Hell, beyond the city of Dis, containing four indulgent sins (Lust, gluttony, avarice, anger); Circle 7 for the sins of violence, and Circles 8 and 9 for the sins of malice (fraud and treachery). Added onto these are two unlike categories that are specifically spiritual: Limbo, within Circle 1, contains the virtuous pagans who were not sinful but were ignorant of Christ; and Circle 6, containing the heretics who contradicted the doctrine and confused the spirit of Christ. The circles are put to 9, with the addition of the Satan completing the structure of 9 + 1 = 10.[17]



Dante gazes at Mount Purgatory in an allegorical portrait by Agnolo Bronzino, painted c. 1530
[edit]Purgatorio
Main article: Purgatorio
Having survived the depths of Hell, Dante and Virgil ascend out of the undergloom, to the Mountain of Purgatory on the far side of the world. The Mountain is on an island, the only land in the Southern Hemisphere, created by the displacement of rock which resulted when Satan's fall created Hell[18] (which Dante portrays as existing underneath Jerusalem[19]). The mountain has seven terraces, corresponding to the seven deadly sins or "seven roots of sinfulness."[20] The classification of sin here is more psychological than that of the Inferno, being based on motives, rather than actions. It is also drawn primarily from Christian theology, rather than from classical sources.[21] However, Dante's illustrative examples of sin and virtue draw on classical sources as well as on the Bible and on contemporary events.

Love, a theme throughout the Divine Comedy, is particularly important for the framing of the sin on the Mountain of Purgatory. While the love that flows from God is pure, it can become sinful as it flows through man. Man can sin by using love towards improper or malicious ends (Wrath, Envy, Pride), or using it to proper ends but with love that is either not strong enough (Sloth) or love that is too strong(Lust, Gluttony, Greed). Below the seven purges of the soul is the Ante-Purgatory, containing the Excommunicated from the church and the Late repentant who died, often violently, before receiving rites. Thus the total comes to nine, with the addition of the Garden of Eden at the summit, equaling ten.[22]

Allegorically, the Purgatorio represents the Christian life. Christian souls arrive escorted by an angel, singing in exitu Israel de Aegypto. In his Letter to Cangrande, Dante explains that this reference to Israel leaving Egypt refers both to the redemption of Christ and to "the conversion of the soul from the sorrow and misery of sin to the state of grace."[23] Appropriately, therefore, it is Easter Sunday when Dante and Virgil arrive.

The Purgatorio is notable for demonstrating the medieval knowledge of a spherical Earth. During the poem, Dante discusses the different stars visible in the southern hemisphere, the altered position of the sun, and the various timezones of the Earth. At this stage it is, Dante says, sunset at Jerusalem, midnight on the River Ganges, and sunrise in Purgatory.

[edit]Paradiso
Main article: Paradiso (Dante)


Dante and Beatrice speak to Piccarda and Constance of Sicily, in a fresco by Philipp Veit, Paradiso, Canto 3.
After an initial ascension, Beatrice guides Dante through the nine celestial spheres of Heaven. These are concentric and spherical, as in Aristotelian and Ptolemaic cosmology. While the structures of the Inferno and Purgatorio were based on different classifications of sin, the structure of the Paradiso is based on the four cardinal virtues and the three theological virtues.

The first seven spheres of Heaven deal solely with the cardinal virtues of Prudence, Fortitude, Justice and Temperance. The first three describe a deficiency of one of the cardinal virtues — the Moon, containing the inconstant whose vows to God waned as the moon thus lack fortitude; Mercury, containing the ambitious who were virtuous for glory and thus lacked justice; and Venus, containing the lovers, whose love was directed toward another than God and thus lacked Temperance. The final four incidentally are positive examples of the cardinal virtues, all led on by the Sun, containing the prudent, whose wisdom lighted the way for the other virtues, to which the others are bound (constituting a category on its own). Mars contains the men of fortitude who died in the cause of Christianity; Jupiter contains the kings of Justice; and Saturn contains the temperant, the monks who abided to the contemplative lifestyle. The seven subdivided into three are raised further by two more categories: the eighth sphere of the fixed stars that contain those who achieved the theological virtues of faith, hope and love, and represent the Church Triumphant — the total perfection of man, cleansed of all the sins and carrying all the virtues of heaven; and the ninth circle, or Primum Mobile (corresponding to Medieval astronomy of Geocentricism) which contains the angels, creatures never poisoned by original sin. Topping them all is the Empyrean that contains the essence of God, completing the 9 fold division to 10.

Dante meets and converses with several great saints of the Church, including Thomas Aquinas, Bonaventure, Saint Peter, and St. John. The Paradiso is consequently more theological in nature than the Inferno and the Purgatorio. However, Dante admits the vision of heaven he receives is the one that his human eyes permit him to see, and the vision of heaven found in the Cantos is Dante's own personal one.

The Divine Comedy finishes with Dante seeing the Triune God. In a flash of understanding, which he cannot express, Dante finally understands the mystery of Christ's divinity and humanity, and his soul becomes aligned with God's love:[24]

But already my desire and my will
were being turned like a wheel, all at one speed,
by the Love which moves the sun and the other stars.[25]

[edit]Earliest manuscripts



First printed edition, 11 April 1472
According to the Italian Dante Society, no original manuscript written by Dante has survived, although there are many manuscript copies from the 14th and 15th centuries – more than 825 are listed on their site.[26] The oldest belongs to the 1330s, almost a decade after Dante's death. The most precious ones are the three full copies made by Giovanni Boccaccio (1360s), who himself did not have the original manuscript as a source.[citation needed] The first printed edition was published in Foligno, Italy, by Johann Numeister and Evangelista Angelini da Trevi on 11 April 1472.[27] Of the 300 copies printed, fourteen still survive. The original printing press is on display in the Oratorio della Nunziatella in Foligno.

[edit]Thematic concerns

The Divine Comedy can be described simply as an allegory: Each canto, and the episodes therein, can contain many alternative meanings. Dante's allegory, however, is more complex, and, in explaining how to read the poem – see the Letter to Cangrande[28] – he outlines other levels of meaning besides the allegory: the historical, the moral, the literal, and the anagogical.

The structure of the poem, likewise, is quite complex, with mathematical and numerological patterns arching throughout the work, particularly threes and nines, which are related to the Trinity. The poem is often lauded for its particularly human qualities: Dante's skillful delineation of the characters he encounters in Hell, Purgatory, and Paradise; his bitter denunciations of Florentine and Italian politics; and his powerful poetic imagination. Dante's use of real characters, according to Dorothy Sayers in her introduction to her translation of the Inferno, allows Dante the freedom of not having to involve the reader in description, and allows him to "[make] room in his poem for the discussion of a great many subjects of the utmost importance, thus widening its range and increasing its variety."[29]

Dante called the poem "Comedy" (the adjective "Divine" was added later in the 14th century) because poems in the ancient world were classified as High ("Tragedy") or Low ("Comedy").[citation needed] Low poems had happy endings and were written in everyday language, whereas High poems treated more serious matters and were written in an elevated style. Dante was one of the first in the Middle Ages to write of a serious subject, the Redemption of Man, in the low and "vulgar" Italian language and not the Latin one might expect for such a serious topic. Boccaccio's account that an early version of the poem was begun by Dante in Latin is still controversial.[30][31]

[edit]Dante's personal involvement
In his allegorical description of sin (in the Inferno) and virtue (in the Purgatorio and Paradiso), Dante draws on real characters from ancient Greek and Roman myths and history, and from his own times. However, his own actions often also illustrate the concepts he is discussing. For example, Dante shares the fleshly sins of the damned at several points in the upper circles of Hell. At the first circle where the virtuous pagans who pursued honor above all else are punished by eternally knowing they have fallen short for their lack of faith, Dante shares with them their love of honor, as evidenced by the word "honor" being used repeatedly in the Canto.[32] Similarly, at the third circle where Ciacco and other gluttons are punished for their appetites, Dante's appetite for political information about his fellow Florentines appears equally gluttonous:

And I to him: I wish thee still to teach me,
And make a gift to me of further speech.

Farinata and Tegghiaio, once so worthy,
Jacopo Rusticucci, Arrigo, and Mosca,
And others who on good deeds set their thoughts,

Say where they are, and cause that I may know them;
For great desire constraineth me to learn
If Heaven doth sweeten them, or Hell envenom.[33]

Conversely, in the Purgatorio, after leaving the terrace of the proud, Dante has learned from the example set by Omberto[34] and suppresses his own pride, declining to speak of his achievements:

And I: Through midst of Tuscany there wanders
A streamlet that is born in Falterona,
And not a hundred miles of course suffice it;

From thereupon do I this body bring.
To tell you who I am were speech in vain,
Because my name as yet makes no great noise."[35]

[edit]Scientific themes


Albert Ritter sketched the Comedy's geography from Dante's Cantos: Hell's entrance is near Florence with the circles descending to Earth's centre; sketch 5 reflects Canto 34's inversion as Dante passes down, and thereby up to Mount Purgatory's shores in the southern hemisphere, where he passes to the first sphere of Heaven at the top.
Although the Divine Comedy is primarily a religious poem, discussing sin, virtue, and theology, Dante also discusses several elements of the science of his day (this mixture of science with poetry has received both praise and blame over the centuries[36]). The Purgatorio repeatedly refers to the implications of a spherical Earth, such as the different stars visible in the southern hemisphere, the altered position of the sun, and the various timezones of the Earth. For example, at sunset in Purgatory it is midnight at the Ebro (a river in Spain), dawn in Jerusalem, and noon on the River Ganges:[37]

Just as, there where its Maker shed His blood,
the sun shed its first rays, and Ebro lay
beneath high Libra, and the ninth hour's rays
were scorching Ganges' waves; so here, the sun
stood at the point of day's departure when
God's angel—happy—showed himself to us.[38]
Dante travels through the centre of the Earth in the Inferno, and comments on the resulting change in the direction of gravity in Canto XXXIV (lines 76–120). A little earlier (XXXIII, 102–105), he queries the existence of wind in the frozen inner circle of hell, since it has no temperature differentials.[39]

Inevitably, given its setting, the Paradiso discusses astronomy extensively, but in the Ptolemaic sense. The Paradiso also discusses the importance of the experimental method in science, with a detailed example in lines 94–105 of Canto II:

Yet an experiment, were you to try it,
could free you from your cavil and the source
of your arts' course springs from experiment.
Taking three mirrors, place a pair of them
at equal distance from you; set the third
midway between those two, but farther back.
Then, turning toward them, at your back have placed
a light that kindles those three mirrors and
returns to you, reflected by them all.
Although the image in the farthest glass
will be of lesser size, there you will see
that it must match the brightness of the rest.[40]
A briefer example occurs in Canto XV of the Purgatorio (lines 16–21), where Dante points out that both theory and experiment confirm that the angle of incidence is equal to the angle of reflection. Other references to science in the Paradiso include descriptions of clockwork in Canto XXIV (lines 13–18), and Thales' theorem about triangles in Canto XIII (lines 101–102).

Galileo Galilei is known to have lectured on the Inferno, and it has been suggested that the poem may have influenced some of Galileo's own ideas regarding mechanics.[41]

[edit]Islamic philosophy

In 1919, Professor Miguel Asín Palacios, a Spanish scholar and a Catholic priest, published La Escatología musulmana en la Divina Comedia ("Islamic Eschatology in the Divine Comedy"), an account of parallels between early Islamic philosophy and the Divine Comedy. Palacios argued that Dante derived many features of and episodes about the hereafter from the spiritual writings of Ibn Arabi and from the Isra and Mi'raj or night journey of Muhammad to heaven. The latter is described in the Hadith and the Kitab al Miraj (translated into Latin in 1264 or shortly before[42] as Liber Scalae Machometi, "The Book of Muhammad's Ladder"), and has some slight similarities to the Paradiso, such as a sevenfold division of Paradise,[43] although this is not unique to the Kitab al Miraj.

Some "superficial similarities"[44] of the Divine Comedy to the Resalat Al-Ghufran or Epistle of Forgiveness of Al-Ma'arri have also been mentioned in this debate. The Resalat Al-Ghufran describes the journey of the poet in the realms of the afterlife and includes dialogue with people in Heaven and Hell, although, unlike the Kitab al Miraj, there is little description of these locations,[45] and it is unlikely that Dante borrowed from this work.[46][47]

Dante did, however, live in a Europe of substantial literary and philosophical contact with the Muslim world, encouraged by such factors as Averroism ("Averrois, che'l gran comento feo" Commedia, Inferno, IV, 144, meaning "Averrois, who wrote the great comment") and the patronage of Alfonso X of Castile. Of the twelve wise men Dante meets in Canto X of the Paradiso, Thomas Aquinas and, even more so, Siger of Brabant were strongly influenced by Arabic commentators on Aristotle.[48] Medieval Christian mysticism also shared the Neoplatonic influence of Sufis such as Ibn Arabi. Philosopher Frederick Copleston argued in 1950 that Dante's respectful treatment of Averroes, Avicenna, and Siger of Brabant indicates his acknowledgement of a "considerable debt" to Islamic philosophy.[48]

Although this philosophical influence is generally acknowledged, many scholars have not been satisfied that Dante was influenced by the Kitab al Miraj. The 20th century Orientalist Francesco Gabrieli expressed skepticism regarding the claimed similarities, and the lack of evidence of a vehicle through which it could have been transmitted to Dante. Even so, while dismissing the probability of some influences posited in Palacios' work,[49] Gabrieli conceded that it was "at least possible, if not probable, that Dante may have known the Liber scalae and have taken from it certain images and concepts of Muslim eschatology". Shortly before her death, the Italian philologist Maria Corti pointed out that, during his stay at the court of Alfonso X, Dante's mentor Brunetto Latini met Bonaventura de Siena, a Tuscan who had translated the Kitab al Miraj from Arabic into Latin. Corti speculates that Brunetto may have provided a copy of that work to Dante.[50] René Guenon, in The Esoterism of Dante, rejected the influence of Ibn Arabi (direct or indirect) on Dante.[51]

[edit]Literary influence in the English-speaking world and beyond

The work was not always so well regarded. After being recognized as a masterpiece in the centuries immediately following its publication,[52] the work was largely ignored during the Enlightenment, with some notable exceptions such as Vittorio Alfieri; Antoine de Rivarol, who translated the Inferno into French; and Giambattista Vico, who in the Scienza nuova and in the Giudizio su Dante inaugurated what would later become the romantic reappraisal of Dante, juxtaposing him to Homer.[53] The Comedy was "rediscovered" by William Blake – who illustrated several passages of the epic – and the romantic writers of the 19th century. Later authors such as T. S. Eliot, Ezra Pound, Samuel Beckett, C. S. Lewis and James Joyce have drawn on it for inspiration. The poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow was its first American translator,[54] and modern poets, including Seamus Heaney,[55] Robert Pinsky, John Ciardi, W. S. Merwin, and Stanley Lombardo, have also produced translations of all or parts of the book. In Russia, beyond Pushkin's memorable translation of a few tercets,[56] Osip Mandelstam's late poetry has been said to bear the mark of a "tormented meditation" on the Comedy.[57] In 1934 Mandelstam gave a modern reading of the poem in his labyrinthine "Conversation on Dante".[58] Mikhail Lozinsky's translation of the poem, completed in 1945, is considered to be one of the greatest works of Russian poetry in the 20th century and arguably the best translation of any foreign-language poem into Russian ever.


Purgatorio
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For other uses, see Purgatorio (disambiguation).


Plan of Mount Purgatory. As with Paradise, the structure is of the form 2+7=9+1=10, with one of the ten regions different in nature from the other nine.
This article is part of a series about
Dante's Divine Comedy
Inferno · Purgatorio · Paradiso
v t e
Purgatorio (Italian for "Purgatory") is the second part of Dante's Divine Comedy, following the Inferno, and preceding the Paradiso. The poem was written in the early 14th century. It is an allegory telling of the climb of Dante up the Mount of Purgatory, guided by the Roman poet Virgil. In the poem, Purgatory is depicted as a mountain in the Southern Hemisphere, consisting of a bottom section (Ante-Purgatory), seven levels of suffering and spiritual growth (associated with the seven deadly sins), and finally the Earthly Paradise at the top. Allegorically, the poem represents the Christian life, and in describing the climb Dante discusses the nature of sin, examples of vice and virtue, and moral issues in politics and in the Church. The poem outlines a theory that all sin arises from love – either perverted love directed towards others' harm, or deficient love, or the disordered love of good things.

Contents  [hide] 
1 Introduction
2 Ante-Purgatory
3 The seven terraces of Purgatory
3.1 First terrace (the proud)
3.2 Second terrace (the envious)
3.3 Third terrace (the wrathful)
3.4 Fourth terrace (the slothful)
3.5 Fifth terrace (the covetous)
3.6 Sixth terrace (the gluttonous)
3.7 Seventh terrace (the lustful)
4 The Earthly Paradise
5 The Purgatorio in the arts
6 See also
7 Footnotes
8 External links
[edit]Introduction



Dante begins the Purgatorio by invoking the Muses, Canto 1.


Christian souls arrive singing, escorted by an angel, Canto 2.
Having survived the depths of Hell (described in the Inferno), Dante and Virgil ascend out of the undergloom, to the Mountain of Purgatory on the far side of the world. The mountain is an island, the only land in the Southern Hemisphere. Dante describes Hell as existing underneath Jerusalem, created by the impact of Satan's fall. Mount Purgatory, on exactly the opposite side of the world, was created by a displacement of rock, caused by the same event.[1] Dante announces his intention to describe Purgatory by invoking the mythical Muses, as he did in Canto II of the Inferno:

"And of that second kingdom will I sing
Wherein the human spirit doth purge itself,
And to ascend to heaven becometh worthy.
let dead Poesy here rise again,
O holy Muses, since that I am yours,"[2]

Allegorically, the Purgatorio represents the penitent Christian life.[3] In a contrast to Charon's ferry across the Acheron in the Inferno, Christian souls here arrive escorted by an angel, singing In exitu Israel de Aegypto[4] (Canto II). In his Letter to Cangrande, Dante explains that this reference to Israel leaving Egypt refers both to the redemption of Christ and to "the conversion of the soul from the sorrow and misery of sin to the state of grace."[5] Appropriately, therefore, it is Easter Sunday when Dante and Virgil arrive.[6]

The Purgatorio is notable for demonstrating the medieval knowledge of a spherical Earth.[7][8] During the poem, Dante discusses the different stars visible in the southern hemisphere, the altered position of the sun, and the various timezones of the Earth. At this stage it is, Dante says, sunset at Jerusalem, midnight on the River Ganges (with the constellation Libra overhead there), and dawn in Purgatory:

"By now the sun was crossing the horizon
of the meridian whose highest point
covers Jerusalem; and from the Ganges,

night, circling opposite the sun, was moving
together with the Scales that, when the length
of dark defeats the day, desert night's hands;

so that, above the shore that I had reached,
the fair Aurora's white and scarlet cheeks
were, as Aurora aged, becoming orange."[9]

[edit]Ante-Purgatory



Pia de' Tolomei (La Pia) in a painting by Stefano Ussi, Canto 5.


Dante and Virgil meet Sordello, in a sculpture by Cesare Zocchi, Canto 7.


The Gate of Purgatory, painted by William Blake, Canto 9.
At the shores of Purgatory, Dante and Virgil meet Cato, a pagan who has been placed by God as the general guardian of the approach to the mountain (his symbolic significance has been much debated). On the lower slopes (designated as "Ante-Purgatory" by commentators), they also meet two main categories of souls whose penitent Christian life was delayed or deficient: the excommunicate and the late repentant. The former are detained here for a period thirty times as long as their period of contumacy. The latter includes those too lazy or too preoccupied to repent, and those who repented at the last minute without formally receiving last rites, as a result of violent deaths. These souls will be admitted to Purgatory thanks to their genuine repentance, but must wait outside for an amount of time equal to their lives on earth.

The excommunicate include Manfred of Sicily (Canto III). The lazy include Belacqua, whom Dante is relieved to discover here, rather than in Hell (Canto IV):

".. From this time on, Belacqua,
I need not grieve for you; .."[10]

Those not receiving last rites include Pia de' Tolomei of Siena, who was murdered by her husband, Nello della Pietra of the Maremma (Canto V):

"may you remember me, who am La Pia;
Siena made, Maremma unmade me:
he who, when we were wed, gave me his pledge
and then, as nuptial ring, his gem, knows that."[11]

Also in this category is the troubadour Sordello who, like Virgil, is from Mantua. When Sordello discovers the great poet's identity, he bows down to him in honour. This helps keep Virgil in the foreground of the poem, since (as a resident of Limbo) Virgil is less qualified as a guide here than he was in Hell.[3] As a resident of Purgatory, Sordello is able to explain the Rule of the Mountain: that after sunset souls are literally incapable of climbing any further. Allegorically, the sun represents God, meaning that progress in the penitent Christian life can only be made through Divine Grace[3] (Cantos VI to VII).

Since the sun is setting, Dante and his companions stop for the night in a beautiful valley where they meet persons whose preoccupation with public and private duties hampered their spiritual progress, particularly deceased monarchs such as Rudolph, Ottokar, Philip the Bold, and Henry III (Cantos VII and VIII). Dante also speaks with the souls of contemporary Italian statesmen Currado Malaspina and Nino Visconti, the latter being a personal friend whom Dante rejoices at not having found among the damned.

As night approaches, the souls sing the Compline hymns Salve Regina and Te lucis ante terminum. Dante's beautiful description of evening in this valley was the inspiration for a similar passage in Byron's Don Juan:[12]

Purgatorio, Canto VIII, 1–6 (Longfellow)	Don Juan, Canto 3, CVIII, 1–6
'twas now the hour that turneth back desire
In those who sail the sea, and melts the heart,
The day they've said to their sweet friends farewell,
And the new pilgrim penetrates with love,
If he doth hear from far away a bell
That seemeth to deplore the dying day,	Soft hour! which wakes the wish and melts the heart
Of those who sail the seas, on the first day
When they from their sweet friends are torn apart;
Or fills with love the pilgrim on his way
As the far bell of vesper makes him start,
Seeming to weep the dying day's decay;
Waking from a dream, Dante finds that he has been carried up to the gate of Purgatory proper. This gate has three steps: polished white (reflecting the purity of the penitent's true self), black (the colour of mourning; cracked in the shape of a Christian cross), and red (symbolising the blood of Christ and the restoration of true life)[13][14] (Canto IX).

The gate of Purgatory, Peter's Gate, is guarded by an angel who uses the point of his sword to draw the letter "P" (signifying peccatum, sin) seven times on Dante's forehead, bidding him "take heed that thou wash / These wounds, when thou shalt be within."[15] With the passage of each terrace and the corresponding purgation of his soul that the pilgrim receives, one of the "P"s is erased by the angel granting passage to the next terrace. The angel at Peter's Gate uses two keys, silver (remorse) and gold (reconciliation) to open the gate – both are necessary for redemption and salvation.[13]

[edit]The seven terraces of Purgatory

From the gate of Purgatory, Virgil guides the pilgrim Dante through its seven terraces. These correspond to the seven deadly sins or "seven roots of sinfulness."[16] The classification of sin here is more psychological than that of the Inferno, being based on motives, rather than actions.[17] It is also drawn primarily from Christian theology, rather than from classical sources.[18] The core of the classification is based on love, with the first three terraces of Purgatory relating to perverted love directed towards actual harm of others. The fourth terrace relates to deficient love (i.e. sloth or acedia), while the last three terraces relate to excessive or disordered love of good things.[16]

Each terrace purges a particular sin in an appropriate manner (those in Purgatory can leave their circle voluntarily, but will only do so when they have corrected the flaw within themselves that led to committing that sin). The structure of the poetic description of these terraces is more systematic than that of the Inferno,[19] and associated with each terrace are an appropriate prayer, a beatitude, and historical and mythological examples of the relevant deadly sin and of its opposite virtue.

[edit]First terrace (the proud)


Dante's first example of humility is taken from the Annunciation. Relief in Auch Cathedral, Canto 10.


Building the Tower of Babel was, for Dante, an example of pride. Painting by Pieter Brueghel the Elder, Canto 12.
The first three terraces of Purgatory relate to sins caused by a perverted love directed towards actual harm of others. The first of these is pride. On the terrace where proud souls purge their sin, Dante and Virgil see beautiful sculptures expressing humility, the opposite virtue. The first example is of the Annunciation to the Virgin Mary, where she responds to the angel Gabriel with the words Ecce ancilla Dei ("Behold the handmaid of the Lord," Luke 1:38[20]). An example of humility from classical history is the Emperor Trajan, who, according to a medieval legend, once stopped his journey to render justice to a poor widow (Canto X).

Also associated with humility is an expanded version of the Lord's Prayer:

Our Father, You who dwell within the heavens
but are not circumscribed by them out of
Your greater love for Your first works above,

Praised be Your name and Your omnipotence,
by every creature, just as it is seemly
to offer thanks to Your sweet effluence.

Your kingdom's peace come unto us, for if
it does not come, then though we summon all
our force, we cannot reach it of our selves.

Just as Your angels, as they sing Hosanna,
offer their wills to You as sacrifice,
so may men offer up their wills to You.

Give unto us this day the daily manna
without which he who labors most to move
ahead through this harsh wilderness falls back.

Even as we forgive all who have done
us injury, may You, benevolent,
forgive, and do not judge us by our worth.

Try not our strength, so easily subdued,
against the ancient foe, but set it free
from him who goads it to perversity."[21]

After being introduced to humility, Dante and Virgil meet the souls of the proud, who are bent over by the weight of huge stones on their backs. As they walk around the terrace, they are able to profit from the sculpted examples of humility. The first of these souls is Omberto Aldobrandeschi, whose pride lies in his descent ("I was Italian, son of a great Tuscan: / my father was Guiglielmo Aldobrandesco"[22]), although he is learning to be more humble[23] ("I / do not know if you have heard his name"[24]). Oderisi of Gubbio is an example of pride in achievements – he was a noted artist of illuminated manuscripts.[23] Provenzano Salvani, leader of the Tuscan Ghibellines, is an example of pride in dominating others[23] (Canto XI).

In Canto XIII, Dante points out, with "frank self-awareness,"[25] that pride is also a serious flaw of his own:

"I fear much more the punishment below;
my soul is anxious, in suspense; already
I feel the heavy weights of the first terrace"[26]

After his conversations with the proud, Dante notes further sculptures on the pavement below, this time illustrating pride itself. The sculptures show Satan (Lucifer), the building of the Tower of Babel, King Saul, Arachne, King Rehoboam, and others. As the poets ascend to the next terrace, an angel brushes Dante's forehead with his wings, erasing the letter "P" (peccatum) corresponding to the sin of pride, and Dante hears the beatitude Beati pauperes spiritu ("Blessed are the poor in spirit," Matthew 5:3[27]) (Canto XII).



Dante's classical example of generosity is the friendship between Orestes and Pylades. According to Cicero's De Amicitia, Pylades pretended to be Orestes in order to save his friend from execution, Canto 13.
[edit]Second terrace (the envious)
Envy is the sin that "looks with grudging hatred upon other men's gifts and good fortune, taking every opportunity to run them down or deprive them of their happiness"[28] (in contrast to covetousness, the excessive desire to have things like money[16]) As one of the envious souls on this terrace says:

"My blood was so afire with envy that,
when I had seen a man becoming happy,
the lividness in me was plain to see."[29]

On entering the terrace of the envious, Dante and Virgil first hear voices on the air telling stories of generosity, the opposite virtue. There is, as in all the other terraces, an episode from the life of the Virgin Mary. This time, the scene from the Life of the Virgin is the Wedding at Cana, in which she expresses her joy for the newly married couple and encourages Christ to perform his first miracle. There is also a classical story (the friendship between Orestes and Pylades[28]), and Jesus' saying "Love your enemies."[30]

The souls of the envious wear penitential grey cloaks,[28] and have their eyes sewn shut, resembling the way a falconer sews shut the eyes of a falcon in order to train it[28] – hence the need for audible, rather than visual, examples here (Canto XIII).



Cain's jealousy of his brother Abel is Dante's Biblical example of envy. Painting by James Tissot, Canto 14.
The souls of the envious include Guido del Duca, who speaks bitterly about the ethics of people in towns along the River Arno:

"That river starts its miserable course
among foul hogs, more fit for acorns than
for food devised to serve the needs of man.

Then, as that stream descends, it comes on curs
that, though their force is feeble, snap and snarl;
scornful of them, it swerves its snout away.

And, downward, it flows on; and when that ditch,
ill-fated and accursed, grows wider, it
finds, more and more, the dogs becoming wolves.

Descending then through many dark ravines,
it comes on foxes so full of deceit
there is no trap that they cannot defeat."[31]

The voices on the air also include examples of envy. The classical example is Aglauros, who (according to Ovid) was turned to stone because she was jealous of Hermes' love for her sister Herse. The Biblical example is Cain,[32] mentioned here not for his act of fratricide, but for the jealousy that led to it (Canto XIV).

As he is leaving the terrace, the dazzling light of the terrace's angel causes Dante to reveal his scientific knowledge, observing that the angle of incidence is equal to the angle of reflection[33] "as theory and experiment will show"[34] (Canto XV).



The stoning of Saint Stephen provides an example of wrath, as well as of meekness, its opposite virtue. Painting by Rembrandt, Canto 15.
[edit]Third terrace (the wrathful)
On the terrace of the wrathful, examples of meekness, the opposite virtue, are given to Dante as visions in his mind. The scene from the Life of the Virgin in this terrace of purgation is the Finding in the Temple. Whereas most parents would be angry at their child for worrying them, Mary is loving and understanding of Christ's motives behind his three day disappearance. In a classical example, the wife of Peisistratos wanted a young man executed for embracing their daughter, to which Peisistratos responded: "What shall we do to one who'd injure us / if one who loves us earns our condemnation?"[35] Saint Stephen provides a Biblical example, drawn from Acts 7:54–60[36] (Canto XV):

Next I saw people whom the fire of wrath
had kindled, as they stoned a youth and kept
on shouting loudly to each other: Kill!

Kill! Kill! I saw him now, weighed down by death,
sink to the ground, although his eyes were bent
always on Heaven: they were Heaven's gates,

Praying to his high Lord, despite the torture,
to pardon those who were his persecutors;
his look was such that it unlocked compassion."[37]

The souls of the wrathful walk around in acrid smoke, which symbolises the blinding effect of anger:[38]

Darkness of Hell and of a night deprived
of every planet, under meager skies,
as overcast by clouds as sky can be,

had never served to veil my eyes so thickly
nor covered them with such rough-textured stuff
as smoke that wrapped us there in Purgatory;

my eyes could not endure remaining open;[39]

Marco Lombardo discourses with Dante on free will – a relevant topic, since there is no point being angry with someone who has no choice over his actions[38] (Canto XVI). Dante also sees visions with examples of wrath, such as Haman and Lavinia. The prayer for this terrace is the Agnus Dei: "Agnus Dei, qui tollis peccata mundi, miserere nobis.. dona nobis pacem." ("Lamb of God, you who take away the sins of the world, have mercy upon us.. grant us peace.") (Canto XVII).

At this point Virgil is able to explain to Dante the organization of Purgatory and its relationship to perverted, deficient, or misdirected love. The three terraces they have seen so far have purged the proud ("he who, through abasement of another, / hopes for supremacy"[40]), the envious ("one who, when he is outdone, / fears his own loss of fame, power, honor, favor; / his sadness loves misfortune for his neighbor."[41]), and the wrathful ("he who, over injury / received, resentful, for revenge grows greedy / and, angrily, seeks out another's harm."[42]). Deficient and misdirected loves are about to follow (Cantos XVII and XVIII).

[edit]Fourth terrace (the slothful)
On the fourth terrace we find souls whose sin was that of deficient love — that is, sloth or acedia. Since they had failed in life to act in pursuit of love, here they are engaged in ceaseless activity. The examples of sloth and of zeal, its opposite virtue, are called out by these souls as they run around the terrace. A scene from the life of the Virgin outlined in this terrace is the Visitation, with Mary going "in haste" to visit her cousin Elizabeth. These examples also include episodes from the lives Julius Caesar and Aeneas. This activity also replaces a verbal prayer for this terrace. Since the formerly slothful are now too busy to converse at length, this section of the poem is a short one.

Allegorically, spiritual laziness and lack of caring lead to sadness,[43] and so the beatitude for this terrace is Beati qui lugent ("Blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted," Matthew 5:4[44]) (Canto XVIII and XIX).

Night falls (for the second time) while the poets are on this terrace, and Dante dreams of a Siren (Canto XIX).



The souls on the fifth terrace lie face-downward, Canto 19.
[edit]Fifth terrace (the covetous)
On the last three terraces are those who sinned by loving good things, but loving them in an excessive or disordered way. On the fifth terrace, excessive concern for earthly goods — whether in the form of greed, ambition or extravagance — is punished and purified, and the avaricious and prodigal lie face-down on the ground, unable to move. Their prayer is Adhaesit pavimento anima mea, taken from Psalm 119:25 ("My soul cleaveth unto the dust: quicken thou me according to thy word,"[45]), which is a prayer expressing the desire to follow God's law (Canto XIX). Dante meets the shade of Pope Adrian V, an exemplar of desire for ecclesiastical power and prestige, who directs the poets on their way.

Further down the terrace, Hugh the Great, personifying greed for worldly wealth and possessions, bemoans the way that, in contrast, avarice has motivated the actions of his successors, and "prophesies" events which occurred after the date in which the poem is set, but before the poem was written:



Templars being burned for heresy at the instigation of Philip IV of France. In Dante's view, this was a political action motivated by avarice,[46] Canto 20.
"The other, who once left his ship as prisoner
I see him sell his daughter, bargaining
as pirates haggle over female slaves.

O Avarice, my house is now your captive:
it traffics in the flesh of its own children
what more is left for you to do to us?

That past and future evil may seem less,
I see the fleur-de-lis enter Anagni
and, in His vicar, Christ made prisoner.

I see Him mocked a second time; I see
the vinegar and gall renewed and He
is slain between two thieves who're still alive.

And I see the new Pilate, one so cruel
that, still not sated, he, without decree,
carries his greedy sails into the Temple."[47]

These events include Charles II of Naples selling his daughter into marriage to an elderly and disreputable man,[48] and Philip IV of France ("the fleur-de-lis") arresting Pope Boniface VIII in 1303 (a pope destined for Hell, according to the Inferno, but still, in Dante's view, the Vicar of Christ[48]). Dante also refers to the suppression of the Knights Templar at Philip's instigation in 1307, which freed Philip from debts he owed to the order (Canto XX).

In a scene which Dante links to the episode where Jesus meets two disciples on the road to Emmaus,[49] Dante and Virgil are overtaken by the poet Statius (ca. 45-96 AD), who Dante presents (on no obvious basis) as a convert to Christianity.[49] He has just finished his time of purgation in this circle, and, as a Christian, his guidance will be able to supplement Virgil's[49] (Canto XXI). The scene from the life of the Virgin, used here to counter the sin of avarice, is the humble birth of Christ.



The Battle of Centaurs and Lapiths is a classical example of gluttony. Painting by Piero di Cosimo, Canto 24.
[edit]Sixth terrace (the gluttonous)
On the sixth terrace are purged the gluttonous, and more generally, those who over-emphasised food, drink, and bodily comforts.[50] In a scene reminiscent of the punishment of Tantalus, they are starved in the presence of trees whose fruit is forever out of reach.[50] The examples here are given by voices in the trees. The Virgin Mary, who shared her Son's gifts with others at the Wedding at Cana, and John the Baptist, who lived on locusts and honey (Matthew 3:4[51]), is an example of the virtue of temperance;.[50] A classical example of the opposite vice of gluttony is the drunkenness of the Centaurs that led to the Battle of Centaurs and Lapiths.[50]



The prayer for this terrace is Labia mea Domine (Psalm 51:15: "O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise"[52]) These are the opening words from the daily Liturgy of the Hours.[53] (the prayers for the fifth and seventh terraces are also taken from the Liturgy of the Hours) (Cantos XXII through XXIV).

Here Dante also meets his friend Forese Donati and his poetic predecessor Bonagiunta Orbicciani. Bonagiunta has kind words for Dante's earlier poem, La Vita Nuova, describing it as the sweet new style, and quoting the line "Ladies that have intelligence of love,"[54] written in praise of Beatrice, who he will meet later in the Purgatorio:

"Ladies that have intelligence of Love,
I of my lady wish with you to speak;
Not that I can believe to end her praise,
But to discourse that I may ease my mind.
I say that when I think upon her worth,
So sweet doth Love make himself feel to me,
That if I then should lose not hardihood,
Speaking, I should enamour all mankind."[55]

Climbing to the seventh terrace, Dante wonders how it is possible for bodiless souls to have the gaunt appearance of the souls being starved here. In explaining, Statius discourses on the nature of the soul and its relationship to the body (Canto XXV).



Virgil, Dante, and Statius beside the flames of the seventh terrace, Canto 25.
[edit]Seventh terrace (the lustful)
The terrace of the lustful has an immense wall of flame through which everyone must pass. Souls repenting of misdirected sexual desire (both heterosexual and homosexual) run through the flames calling out examples of lust (Sodom and Gomorrah and Pasiphaë) and of chastity and marital fidelity (the Virgin Mary's chastity). As a prayer, they sing the hymn Summae Deus Clementiae[56] (God of Supreme Clemency) from the Liturgy of the Hours (Cantos XXV and XXVI).

As they circle the terrace, the two groups of penitents greet each other in a way Dante compares to ants:

"There, on all sides, I can see every shade
move quickly to embrace another shade,
content they did not pause with their brief greeting,

as ants, in their dark company, will touch
their muzzles, each to each, perhaps to seek
news of their fortunes and their journeyings."[57]



Dante dreams of Leah picking flowers, symbol of the active (non-monastic) Christian life, Canto 27.
Among the flames, which he dare not enter, are the poets of love Guido Guinizelli and Arnaut Daniel, with whom Dante speaks. By reminding Dante that Beatrice can be found in the Earthly Paradise on the other side, Virgil finally persuades Dante to pass through the intense fire (Cantos XXVI and XXVII).

On the stairs to the Earthly Paradise, night falls for the third time, and Dante dreams of Leah and Rachel, symbols of the active (non-monastic) and contemplative (monastic) Christian lives, both of which are important[58] (Canto XXVII):

".. in my dream, I seemed to see a woman
both young and fair; along a plain she gathered
flowers, and even as she sang, she said:

Whoever asks my name, know that I'm Leah,
and I apply my lovely hands to fashion
a garland of the flowers I have gathered.

To find delight within this mirror I
adorn myself; whereas my sister Rachel
never deserts her mirror; there she sits

all day; she longs to see her fair eyes gazing,
as I, to see my hands adorning, long:
she is content with seeing, I with labor."[59]

[edit]The Earthly Paradise



Beatrice Addressing Dante, by William Blake, showing the "chariot triumphal" bearing Beatrice and drawn by the Griffin, as well as four of the ladies representing virtues, Canto 29.
At the summit of Mount Purgatory is the Earthly Paradise or Garden of Eden.[60] Allegorically, it represents the state of innocence that existed before Adam and Eve fell from grace – the state which Dante's journey up Mount Purgatory has been recapturing.[60] Here Dante meets Matilda, a woman whose literal and allegorical identity "is perhaps the most tantalizing problem in the Comedy."[60] However, Matilda clearly prepares Dante for his meeting with Beatrice,[60] the woman to whom (historically) Dante dedicated his previous poetry, the woman at whose request (in the story) Virgil was commissioned to bring Dante on his journey,[61] and the woman who (allegorically) symbolizes the path to God[62] (Canto XXVIII).

With Matilda, Dante witnesses a procession which forms an allegory within the allegory, somewhat like Shakespeare's play within a play. It has a very different style from the Purgatorio as a whole, having the form of a masque, where the characters are walking symbols rather than real people. The procession consists of (Canto XXIX):

"twenty-four elders"[63] (a reference to Revelation 4:4[64]), representing the 24 books of the Hebrew Bible, as classified by Jerome[65]
"four animals" with "six wings as plumage"[66] (a reference to Revelation 4:6–8[67]), a traditional representation of the four Evangelists[65]
"a chariot triumphal on two wheels,"[68] bearing Beatrice, which is drawn by..
a Griffin,[69] representing the conjoined divinity and humanity of Christ[65]
"three circling women" coloured red, green, and white,[70] representing the three theological virtues: Love, Hope, and Faith, respectively[65]
"four other women"[71] dressed in purple,[72] representing the four cardinal virtues: Prudence, Justice, Temperance, and Fortitude[65]
"two elders, different in their dress,"[73] representing the Acts of the Apostles and the Pauline epistles[65]
"four of humble aspect,"[74] representing the general epistles[65]
"when all the rest had passed, a lone old man,"[75] representing the Book of Revelation[65]


Dante and Beatrice, by John William Waterhouse, 1915.
The appearance of Beatrice,[76] and a dramatic reconciliation scene between Beatrice and Dante, in which she rebukes his sin (Cantos XXX and XXXI), help cover the disappearance of Virgil, who, as a symbol of non-Christian philosophy and humanities, can help him no further in his approach to God[77] (and in the rest of the Divine Comedy, Beatrice is Dante's guide):

"But Virgil had deprived us of himself,
Virgil, the gentlest father, Virgil, he
to whom I gave my self for my salvation;

and even all our ancient mother lost
was not enough to keep my cheeks, though washed
with dew, from darkening again with tears."[78]



Matilda helps Dante pass through the River Lethe, Canto 31.
Dante then passes through the River Lethe, which erases the memory of past sin (Canto XXXI),[79] and sees an allegory of Biblical and Church history, in which the chariot plays the role of the Church. This allegory includes a denunciation of the corrupt papacy of the time, and its ties to the French monarchy[80] (Canto XXXII):

"Just like a fortress set on a steep slope,
securely seated there, ungirt, a whore,
whose eyes were quick to rove, appeared to me;

and I saw at her side, erect, a giant,
who seemed to serve as her custodian;
and they again, again embraced each other."[81]

Finally, Dante drinks from the River Eunoë, which restores good memories, and prepares him for his ascent to Heaven (described in the Paradiso). As with the other two parts of the Divine Comedy, the Purgatorio ends on the word "stars" (Canto XXXIII):

"From that most holy wave I now returned
to Beatrice; remade, as new trees are
renewed when they bring forth new boughs, I was
pure and prepared to climb unto the stars."[82]

[edit]The Purgatorio in the arts

	Wikimedia Commons has media related to: Purgatorio
Main article: Dante and his Divine Comedy in popular culture
The Divine Comedy has been a source of inspiration for countless artists for almost seven centuries. While references to the Inferno are the most common, there are also many references to the Purgatorio. Franz Liszt's Symphony to Dante's Divina Commedia (1856) has a "Purgatorio" movement, as does Robert W. Smith's The Divine Comedy (2006). Chaucer and others have referenced the Purgatorio in their writing. Many visual artists have depicted scenes from the Purgatorio, including Gustave Doré, John Flaxman, Dante Gabriel Rossetti, John William Waterhouse, and William Blake.

Paradiso (Dante)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For other uses, see Paradiso.


Dante and Beatrice speak to the teachers of wisdom Thomas Aquinas, Albertus Magnus, Peter Lombard and Sigier of Brabant in the Sphere of the Sun (fresco by Philipp Veit), Canto 10.
This article is part of a series about
Dante's Divine Comedy
Inferno · Purgatorio · Paradiso
v t e
Paradiso (Italian for "Paradise" or "Heaven") is the third and final part of Dante's Divine Comedy, following the Inferno and the Purgatorio. It is an allegory telling of Dante's journey through Heaven, guided by Beatrice, who symbolises theology. In the poem, Paradise is depicted as a series of concentric spheres surrounding the earth, consisting of the Moon, Mercury, Venus, the Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, the Fixed Stars, the Primum Mobile and finally, the Empyrean. It was written in the early 14th century. Allegorically, the poem represents the soul's ascent to God.

Contents  [hide] 
1 Introduction
2 The Spheres of Heaven
2.1 First Sphere (The Moon: The Inconstant)
2.2 Second Sphere (Mercury: The Ambitious)
2.3 Third Sphere (Venus: The Lovers)
2.4 Fourth Sphere (The Sun: The Wise)
2.5 Fifth Sphere (Mars: The Warriors of the Faith)
2.6 Sixth Sphere (Jupiter: The Just Rulers)
2.7 Seventh Sphere (Saturn: The Contemplatives)
2.8 Eighth Sphere (The Fixed Stars: Faith, Hope, and Love)
2.9 Ninth Sphere (The Primum Mobile: The Angels)
3 The Empyrean
4 See also
5 Footnotes
6 External links
[edit]Introduction



The Paradiso assumes the medieval view of the Universe, with the Earth surrounded by concentric spheres containing planets and stars.
The Paradiso begins at the top of Mount Purgatory, at noon on the Wednesday after Easter. After ascending through the sphere of fire believed to exist in the earth's upper atmosphere (Canto I), Beatrice guides Dante through the nine celestial spheres of Heaven, to the Empyrean, which is the abode of God. The nine spheres are concentric, as in the standard medieval geocentric model of cosmology,[1] which was derived from Ptolemy. The Empyrean is non-material. As with his Purgatory, the structure of Dante's Heaven is therefore of the form 9+1=10, with one of the ten regions different in nature from the other nine.

During the course of his journey, Dante meets and converses with several blessed souls. He is careful to say that these all actually live in bliss with God in the Empyrean:

"But all those souls grace the Empyrean;
and each of them has gentle life though some
sense the Eternal Spirit more, some less."[2]

However, for Dante's benefit (and the benefit of his readers), he is "as a sign"[3] shown various souls in planetary and stellar spheres that have some appropriate connotation.

While the structures of the Inferno and Purgatorio were based around different classifications of sin, the structure of the Paradiso is based on the four cardinal virtues (Prudence, Justice, Temperance, and Fortitude) and the three theological virtues (Faith, Hope, and Love).

[edit]The Spheres of Heaven



On visiting the Moon, Beatrice explains to Dante the reasons for its markings, Canto 2.
Dante's nine spheres of Heaven are the Moon, Mercury, Venus, the Sun, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, the Fixed Stars, and the Primum Mobile. These are associated by Dante with the nine levels of the angelic hierarchy. Dante also relies on traditional associations, such as the one between Venus and romantic love. The first three spheres (which fall within the shadow of the Earth) are associated with deficient forms of Fortitude, Justice, and Temperance. The next four are associated with positive examples of Prudence, Fortitude, Justice, and Temperance; while Faith, Hope, and Love appear together in the eighth sphere.

[edit]First Sphere (The Moon: The Inconstant)
On visiting the Moon, Beatrice explains to Dante the reasons for the markings on its surface, describing a simple scientific experiment in optics. She also praises the experimental method in general (Canto II):

"Yet an experiment, were you to try it,
could free you from your cavil, and the source
of your arts' course springs from experiment."[4]



Dante and Beatrice speak to Piccarda and Constance (fresco by Philipp Veit), Canto 3.
The waxing and waning of the moon is associated with inconstancy.[5] Consequently, the sphere of the Moon is that of souls who abandoned their vows, and so were deficient in the virtue of fortitude (Canto II). Here Dante and Beatrice meet Piccarda, sister of Dante's friend Forese Donati, who died shortly after being forcibly removed from her convent. They also meet Constance of Sicily, who (Dante believes) was forcibly removed from a convent to marry Henry VI (Canto III).[6] Beatrice discourses on the freedom of the will, the sacredness of vows, and the importance of not collaborating with force (Canto IV):

"for will, if it resists, is never spent,
but acts as nature acts when fire ascends,
though force a thousand times tries to compel.

So that, when will has yielded much or little,
it has abetted force as these souls did:
they could have fled back to their holy shelter."[7]

Beatrice explains that a vow is a pact "drawn between a man / and God,"[8] in which a person freely offers up his free will as a gift to God. Vows should therefore not be taken lightly, and should be kept once given – unless keeping the vow would be a greater evil, as with Jephthah's and Agamemnon's sacrifice of their daughters (Canto V).[9]



Dante meets the Emperor Justinian in the Sphere of Mercury, Canto 5.
[edit]Second Sphere (Mercury: The Ambitious)
Because of its proximity to the sun, the planet Mercury is often difficult to see. Allegorically, the planet represents those who did good out of a desire for fame, but who, being ambitious, were deficient in the virtue of justice. Their earthly glory pales into insignificance beside the glory of God, just as Mercury pales into insignificance beside the sun.[9] Here Dante meets the Emperor Justinian, who introduces himself with the words "Caesar I was and am Justinian,"[10] indicating that his personality remains, but that his earthly status no longer exists in Heaven[11] (Canto V). Justinian recounts the history of the Roman Empire, mentioning, among others, Julius Caesar and Cleopatra; and bemoans the present state of Italy, given the conflict between Guelphs and Ghibellines, and the involvement of the "yellow lilies" of France[11] (Canto VI):

"For some oppose the universal emblem
with yellow lilies; others claim that emblem
for party: it is hard to see who is worse.

Let Ghibellines pursue their undertakings
beneath another sign, for those who sever
this sign and justice are bad followers."[12]

By association, Beatrice discourses on the Incarnation and the Crucifixion of Christ, which occurred during Roman times (Canto VII).

[edit]Third Sphere (Venus: The Lovers)
The planet Venus (the Morning and Evening Star) is traditionally associated with the Goddess of Love, and so Dante makes this the planet of the lovers, who were deficient in the virtue of temperance (Canto VIII):

"The world, when still in peril, thought that, wheeling,
in the third epicycle, Cyprian
the fair sent down her rays of frenzied love,

.. and gave the name of her
with whom I have begun this canto, to
the planet that is courted by the sun,
at times behind her and at times in front."[13]



The florin, the "damned flower," Canto 9.


Folquet de Marseilles bemoans the corruption of the Church, with the clergy receiving money from Satan (miniature by Giovanni di Paolo), Canto 9.
Dante meets Charles Martel of Anjou, who was known to him,[14] and who points out that a properly functioning society requires people of many different kinds. Such differences are illustrated by Cunizza da Romano (lover of Sordello), who is here in Heaven, while her brother Ezzelino III da Romano is in Hell, among the violent of the seventh circle.[15]

The troubadour Folquet de Marseilles speaks of the temptations of love, and points out that (as was believed at the time) the cone of the Earth's shadow just touches the sphere of Venus. He condemns the city of Florence (planted, he says, by Satan) for producing that "damned flower" (the florin) which is responsible for the corruption of the Church, and he criticises the clergy for their focus on money, rather than on Scripture and the writings of the Church Fathers (Canto IX):

"Your city, which was planted by that one
who was the first to turn against his Maker,
the one whose envy cost us many tears

produces and distributes the damned flower
that turns both sheep and lambs from the true course,
for of the shepherd it has made a wolf.

For this the Gospel and the great Church Fathers
are set aside and only the Decretals
are studied as their margins clearly show.

On these the pope and cardinals are intent.
Their thoughts are never bent on Nazareth,
where Gabriel's open wings were reverent."[16]

[edit]Fourth Sphere (The Sun: The Wise)
Beyond the shadow of the Earth, Dante deals with positive examples of Prudence, Justice, Temperance, and Fortitude. Within the Sun, which is the Earth's source of illumination, Dante meets the greatest examples of prudence: the souls of the wise, who help to illuminate the world intellectually[17] (Canto X). Initially, a circle of twelve bright lights dance around Dante and Beatrice. These are the souls of:[17]



Dante and Beatrice meet twelve wise men in the Sphere of the Sun (miniature by Giovanni di Paolo), Canto 10.
Thomas Aquinas
Albertus Magnus
Gratian
Peter Lombard
King Solomon
Dionysius the Areopagite, confused here with Pseudo-Dionysius
Orosius
Boethius
Isidore of Seville
Bede
Richard of Saint Victor
Sigier of Brabant
This list includes philosophers, theologians and a king, and has representatives from across Europe. Thomas Aquinas recounts the life of St. Francis of Assisi, and his love for "Lady Poverty" (Canto XI):



St. Francis, whose life is recounted by Aquinas (painting by Jusepe de Ribera), Canto 11.
"Between Topino's stream and that which flows
down from the hill the blessed Ubaldo chose,
from a high peak there hangs a fertile slope;

from there Perugia feels both heat and cold
at Porta Sole, while behind it sorrow
Nocera and Gualdo under their hard yoke.

From this hillside, where it abates its rise,
a sun was born into the world, much like
this sun when it is climbing from the Ganges.

Therefore let him who names this site not say
Ascesi, which would be to say too little,
but Orient, if he would name it rightly."[18]

Twelve new bright lights appear, one of which is St. Bonaventure, a Franciscan, who recounts the life of St. Dominic, founder of the order to which Aquinas belonged. The two orders were not always friendly on earth, and having members of one order praising the founder of the other shows the love present in Heaven[19] (Canto XII). The twenty-four bright lights revolve around Dante and Beatrice, singing of the Trinity, and Aquinas explains the surprising presence of King Solomon, who is placed here for kingly, rather than philosophical or mathematical wisdom (Cantos XIII and XIV):

"My words did not prevent your seeing clearly
that it was as a king that he had asked
for wisdom that would serve his royal task

and not to know the number of the angels
on high or, if combined with a contingent,
necesse ever can produce necesse,

or si est dare primum motum esse,
or if, within a semicircle, one
can draw a triangle with no right angle."[20]



The souls in the Fifth Sphere form a Greek cross, which Dante compares to the Milky Way, Canto 14.
[edit]Fifth Sphere (Mars: The Warriors of the Faith)
The planet Mars is traditionally associated with the God of War, and so Dante makes this planet the home of the warriors of the Faith, who gave their lives for God, thereby displaying the virtue of fortitude.[21] The millions of sparks of light that are the souls of these warriors form a Greek cross on the planet Mars, and Dante compares this cross to the Milky Way (Canto XIV):

"As, graced with lesser and with larger lights
between the poles of the world, the Galaxy
gleams so that even sages are perplexed;

so, constellated in the depth of Mars,
those rays described the venerable sign
a circle's quadrants form where they are joined."[22]

Dante says that sages are "perplexed" by the nature of the Milky Way, but in his Convivio, he had described its nature fairly well:

"What Aristotle said on this matter cannot be known with certainty.. In the Old Translation he says that the Galaxy is nothing but a multitude of fixed stars in that region, so small that we are unable to distinguish them from here below, though from them originates the appearance of that brightness which we call the Galaxy; this may be so, for the heaven in that region is denser, and therefore retains and throws back this light. Avicenna and Ptolemy seem to share this opinion with Aristotle."[23]

Dante meets his ancestor Cacciaguida, who served in the Second Crusade.[24] Cacciaguida praises the twelfth-century Republic of Florence, and bemoans the way in which the city has declined since those days (Cantos XV and XVI). The setting of the Divine Comedy in the year 1300, before Dante's exile, has allowed characters in the poem to "foretell" bad things for Dante.[25] In response to a question from Dante, Cacciaguida speaks the truth bluntly. Dante will be exiled (Canto XVII):

"You shall leave everything you love most dearly:
this is the arrow that the bow of exile
shoots first. You are to know the bitter taste

of others' bread, how salt it is, and know
how hard a path it is for one who goes
descending and ascending others' stairs."[26]

However, Cacciaguida also charges Dante to write and tell the world all that he has seen of Hell, Purgatory, and Heaven.[25] Finally, Dante sees some other warriors of the Faith, such as Joshua, Judas Maccabeus, Charlemagne, Roland, and Godfrey of Bouillon (Canto XVIII).



An imperial eagle. The souls forming the final "M" of "TERRAM" transform themselves into this shape, Canto 18.
[edit]Sixth Sphere (Jupiter: The Just Rulers)
The planet Jupiter is traditionally associated with the king of the gods, and so Dante makes this planet the home of the rulers who displayed justice.[27] The souls here spell out the Latin for "Love justice, ye that judge the earth", after which the final "M" of that sentence is transformed into the shape of a giant imperial eagle[27] (Canto XVIII):

"DILIGITE IUSTITIAM were the verb
and noun that first appeared in that depiction;
QUI IUDICATIS TERRAM followed after.

Then, having formed the M of the fifth word,
those spirits kept their order; Jupiter's
silver, at that point, seemed embossed with gold."[28]

Present in this sphere are David, Hezekiah, Trajan (converted to Christianity according to a medieval legend), Constantine, William II of Sicily, and (Dante is amazed at this) Ripheus the Trojan, a pagan saved by the mercy of God.[29] The souls forming the imperial eagle speak with one voice, and tell of God's justice[30] (Cantos XIX and XX).

[edit]Seventh Sphere (Saturn: The Contemplatives)
The sphere of Saturn is that of the contemplatives, who embody temperance.[31] Dante here meets Peter Damian, and discusses with him monasticism, the doctrine of predestination, and the sad state of the Church[32] (Cantos XXI and XXII). Beatrice, who represents theology, becomes increasingly lovely here, indicating the contemplative's closer insight into the truth of God:



Dante and Beatrice meet Peter Damien, who tells of his life, and discusses predestination (miniature by Giovanni di Paolo), Canto 21.
"She did not smile. Instead her speech to me
began: Were I to smile, then you would be
like Semele when she was turned to ashes,

because, as you have seen, my loveliness
which, even as we climb the steps of this
eternal palace, blazes with more brightness

were it not tempered here, would be so brilliant
that, as it flashed, your mortal faculty
would seem a branch a lightning bolt has cracked."[33]



Looking down from the Sphere of the Fixed Stars, Dante sees the humble planet that is the Earth, Canto 22.
[edit]Eighth Sphere (The Fixed Stars: Faith, Hope, and Love)
The sphere of the Fixed Stars is the sphere of the church triumphant.[34] From here (in fact, from the constellation Gemini, under which he was born), Dante looks back on the seven spheres he has visited, and on the Earth (Canto XXII):

"My eyes returned through all the seven spheres
and saw this globe in such a way that I
smiled at its scrawny image: I approve

that judgment as the best, which holds this earth
to be the least; and he whose thoughts are set
elsewhere, can truly be called virtuous."[35]

Here, Dante sees the Virgin Mary and other saints (Canto XXIII). St Peter tests Dante on faith, asking what it is, and whether Dante has it. In response to Dante's reply, St. Peter asks Dante how he knows that the Bible is true, and (in an argument attributed to Augustine[36]) Dante cites the miracle of the Church's growth from such humble beginnings (Canto XXIV):

"Say, who assures you that those works were real?
came the reply. The very thing that needs
proof no thing else attests these works to you.



Dante Alighieri`s Paradiso

Alessandro Sorrentino reads the XXXIII chant of Dante's Paradise
Problems listening to this file? See media help.
I said: If without miracles the world
was turned to Christianity, that is
so great a miracle that, all the rest

are not its hundredth part: for you were poor
and hungry when you found the field and sowed
the good plant once a vine and now a thorn."[37]



St. James, who questions Dante on hope (painting by Rembrandt), Canto 25.
St. James[38] questions Dante on hope, and Beatrice vouches for his possession of it (Canto XXV):

"There is no child of the Church Militant
who has more hope than he has, as is written
within the Sun whose rays reach all our ranks:

thus it is granted him to come from Egypt
into Jerusalem that he have vision
of it, before his term of warring ends."[39]

Finally, St. John questions Dante on love. In his reply, Dante refers back to the concept of "twisted love" discussed in the Purgatorio[40] (Canto XXVI):

"Thus I began again: My charity
results from all those things whose bite can bring
the heart to turn to God; the world's existence

and mine, the death that He sustained that I
might live, and that which is the hope of all
believers, as it is my hope, together

with living knowledge I have spoken of
these drew me from the sea of twisted love
and set me on the shore of the right love.

The leaves enleaving all the garden of
the Everlasting Gardener, I love
according to the good He gave to them."[41]

St. Peter then denounces Pope Boniface VIII in very strong terms, and says that, in his eyes, the Papal See stands empty (Canto XXVII).



Dante and Beatrice see God as a point of light surrounded by angels (illustration by Gustave Doré), Canto 28.
[edit]Ninth Sphere (The Primum Mobile: The Angels)
The Primum Mobile ("first moved" sphere) is the last sphere of the physical universe. It is moved directly by God, and its motion causes all the spheres it encloses to move[42] (Canto XXVII):

"This heaven has no other where than this:
the mind of God, in which are kindled both
the love that turns it and the force it rains.

As in a circle, light and love enclose it,
as it surrounds the rest and that enclosing,
only He who encloses understands.

No other heaven measures this sphere's motion,
but it serves as the measure for the rest,
even as half and fifth determine ten;"[43]

The Primum Mobile is the abode of angels, and here Dante sees God as an intensely bright point of light surrounded by nine rings of angels (Canto XXVIII). Beatrice explains the creation of the universe, and the role of the angels, ending with a forceful criticism of the preachers of the day (Canto XXIX):



Beatrice criticises the preachers of the day, suggesting that a sinister "bird" (a winged demon) nests in the preacher's cowl (miniature by Giovanni di Paolo), Canto 29.
"Christ did not say to his first company:
'Go, and preach idle stories to the world;
but he gave them the teaching that is truth,

and truth alone was sounded when they spoke;
and thus, to battle to enkindle faith,
the Gospels served them as both shield and lance.

But now men go to preach with jests and jeers,
and just as long as they can raise a laugh,
the cowl puffs up, and nothing more is asked.

But such a bird nests in that cowl, that if
the people saw it, they would recognize
as lies the pardons in which they confide."[44]

[edit]The Empyrean

From the Primum Mobile, Dante ascends to a region beyond physical existence, the Empyrean, which is the abode of God. Beatrice, representing theology,[45] is here transformed to be more beautiful than ever before, and Dante becomes enveloped in light, rendering him fit to see God[45] (Canto XXX):

"Like sudden lightning scattering the spirits
of sight so that the eye is then too weak
to act on other things it would perceive,

such was the living light encircling me,
leaving me so enveloped by its veil
of radiance that I could see no thing.

The Love that calms this heaven always welcomes
into Itself with such a salutation,
to make the candle ready for its flame."[46]

Dante sees an enormous rose, symbolising divine love,[45] the petals of which are the enthroned souls of the faithful (both those of the Old Testament and those of the New). All the souls he has met in Heaven, including Beatrice, have their home in this rose.[45] Angels fly around the rose like bees, distributing peace and love. Beatrice now returns to her place in the rose, signifying that Dante has passed beyond theology in directly contemplating God,[47] and St. Bernard, as a mystical contemplative, now guides Dante further (Canto XXXI).



The three circles of the Trinity (illustration by John Flaxman), Canto 33.
St. Bernard further explains predestination, and prays to the Virgin Mary on Dante's behalf. Finally, Dante comes face-to-face with God Himself (Cantos XXXII and XXXIII). God appears as three equally large circles occupying the same space, representing the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit[48]:

"but through my sight, which as I gazed grew stronger,
that sole appearance, even as I altered,
seemed to be changing. In the deep and bright

essence of that exalted Light, three circles
appeared to me; they had three different colors,
but all of them were of the same dimension;

one circle seemed reflected by the second,
as rainbow is by rainbow, and the third
seemed fire breathed equally by those two circles."[49]

Within these circles Dante can discern the human form of Christ. The Divine Comedy ends with Dante trying to understand how the circles fit together, and how the humanity of Christ relates to the divinity of the Son but, as Dante puts it, "that was not a flight for my wings."[50] In a flash of understanding, which he cannot express, Dante does finally see this, and his soul becomes aligned with God's love:[48]

"But already my desire and my will
were being turned like a wheel, all at one speed,
by the Love which moves the sun and the other stars."[51]

Egyptian pantheon
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
 	

	
nṯrt "Goddess"
in hieroglyphs


 	
nṯr "God"
in hieroglyphs
The Egyptian pantheon comprised the many deities worshipped by the Ancient Egyptians. A number of major deities are addressed as the creators of the cosmos. These include Atum, Ra, Amun (Amen), and Ptah amongst others, as well as composite forms of these deities such as Amun-Ra. This was not seen as contradictory by the Egyptians. The development of Egyptian religion in the New Kingdom lead some early Egyptologists such as E. A. Wallis Budge to speculate that the Egyptians were in reality monotheistic. Others such as Sir Flinders Petrie considered the Egyptians to be polytheists. Erik Hornung [1] argues that the best term to apply to their religion is 'henotheism' which describes 'worship of one god at a time but not a single god.'

The Egyptian term for goddess was neṯeret (nṯrt; netjeret, nečeret) and the term for god was neṯer (nṯr; also transliterated netjer, nečer). The hieroglyph represents a pole or staff wrapped in cloth with the free end of the cloth shown at the top. Alternative hieroglyphs for 'goddess' show the staff and cloth without the upright mark seen here in that for 'god'. The use of this sign has been connected to the flag poles at the entrance towers of Egyptian temples. Alternative glyphs for 'god' include a star, a squatting human figure similar to the format seen here for 'goddess', or a hawk on a perch.[2]

Contents  [hide] 
1 Background and history
2 Companies of deities
3 Animal worship
4 List of deities of Ancient Egypt
5 See also
6 References
7 External links
[edit]Background and history



The head of an Egyptian goddess, the gender is suggested by the lack of a beard and the simple hairstyle points to the divine status of the subject


Predynastic artifacts: clockwise from top left: a Bat figurine, a Naqada jar, an ivory figurine, a porphyry jar, a flint knife, and a cosmetic palette
The Egyptian religion has a long history. Earliest images include the symbols for the goddess Neith, many fertility figurines and versions of the vulture goddess (Nekhbet) and cobra goddess (Wadjet) which were borne on Egyptian crowns from predynastic and protodynastic periods through their entire history to the end of the Roman period.

The many types of animals native to northern Africa were immensely influential in nearly every significant aspect of the Ancient Egyptian way of life. The people were highly dependent on, and sometimes equally highly cautious of, different animals in many differing ways. The presence of certain animals (or lack thereof) factored with their behavior and sheer numbers, could easily mean the difference between life and death to an individual Egyptian person in one common type of situation; just as easily as they could mean the difference between prosperity and poverty to a person in another type of situation. Perhaps most importantly, however, certain animals could also mean the difference between peace and war for the entire nation.

With regard to religion, there was a vast amount of varying forms of symbolism relating to animals embraced by the Ancient Egyptians—the symbols connoted by various animals were consistently recurring themes in their religious system. For instance, there were many cow goddesses, such as Hathor and Bat, reflecting the fact that cattle were domesticated in Egypt by 8,000 B.C. Stone-roofed subterranean chambers and other subterranean complexes in Nabta Playa were constructed by 5,500 B.C., for the express purpose of housing the tombs of ritually sacrificed cattle. Wild, as well as domesticated animals, inspired a truly enormous amount of religious symbolism, take for instance the fierce lioness, personified by Sekhmet as the warrior goddess in the south.

By 4,000 B.C. Gerzean tomb-building was seen to include underground rooms and burial of furniture and amulets, a prelude to the funerary cult of Osiris, which appears in the Fifth Dynasty.

The pharaoh was deified after death, and bore the title of nṯr nfr "the good god". The title, "servant of god" was used for the priesthood, ḥmt-nṯr for 'priestesses' and ḥm-nṯr for 'priests'. Over the great period of time covered by Ancient Egyptian culture the importance of certain deities would rise and fall, often because of the religious allegiance of the king or the prominence of the city where their cult was centered. The worship of some deities, however, was more or less continuous.

[edit]Companies of deities



Ancient Egyptian votive statues of the deities
The Ennead of Heliopolis, meaning the nine – consisted of Atum, Geb, Isis, Nut, Osiris, Nephthys, Set, Shu, and Tefnut
The Ogdoad of Hermopolis, eight deities who were worshipped in four female-male pairs; the females were associated with snakes and the males with frogs: Naunet and Nu, Amaunet and Amun, Kauket and Kuk, Hauhet and Huh
The Ptah-Sekhmet-Nefertem triad of Memphis
[edit]Animal worship

Main article: Animal worship
Many animals were considered sacred to particular deities:

Deity	Animal
Ptah	Bull
Thoth	Ibis or Baboon
Amun	Ram
Horus or Ra	Falcon or Hawk
Anubis	Jackal or Dog
Sobek	Crocodile
Hathor	Cow
Sekhmet	Lioness
Nekhbet	Vulture
Wadjet or Ejo	Egyptian cobra
Khepri	Scarab Beetle
Geb	Egyptian Goose or Snake
Bast or Bastet	Cat
[3]

[edit]List of deities of Ancient Egypt



Hathor-Menkaure-Bat triad of the fourth dynasty – the deities flank the pharaoh and provide the authority to rule – Cairo Museum
Aken – Ra as ferryman to the underworld became a separate deity subservient to Osiris
Aker - early deity of the horizon, later called, Ruti, two lions
Am-heh - minor underworld god, "devourer of millions"
Ammit – crocodile-headed female devourer in Duat, a funerary deity
Amun or Amen – "the hidden one", a local creator deity at Thebes who rose in importance when it did, later married to Mut after the rise
Amunet – the primordial goddess, the concept of air in the Ogdoad cosmogony; depicted as a cobra snake or a snake-headed woman
Andjety - god thought to be a precursor to Osiris
Anhur - god of war at Abydos and Thinis
Ankt - a minor war goddess
Anput - goddess who was the female aspect of Anubis, his wife
Anti - god of ferrymen, related to Horus
Anubis or Yinepu – dog or jackal god of embalming and tomb-caretaker who watches over the dead
Anuket - gazelle-headed goddess of the Nile River, the child of Satis, and among the Elephantine triad of deities
Apophis or Apep – evil serpent of the Underworld and enemy of Ra; formed from a length of Neith's spit during her creation of the world, chaos
Apis – bull deity worshipped in the Memphis region
Ash - god of oases and the vineyards of the western Nile Delta
The Aten – a simultaneously both feminine and masculine sun deity worshipped prominently during the period of Atenism in the eighteenth dynasty under Pharaoh Amenhotep IV (Akhenaten)
Atum – a creator deity, and the setting sun
Babi - baboon god associated with death and virility
Banebdjedet - ram god of fertility
Ba-Pef - minor underworld god
Bast or Bastet – protector of the pharaoh and solar goddess, depicted as a lioness, house cat, cat-bodied or cat-headed woman; after Greek occupation identified by them as a lunar deity
Bat – cow goddess who gave authority to the king, her cult originated in Hu and persisted widely until absorbed as an aspect of Hathor after the eleventh dynasty
Bata - bull god
Bes – dwarfed demigod associated with protection of the household, particularly childbirth, and entertainment
Chenti-cheti - crocodile god
Geb – god of the Earth, first ruler of Egypt and husband of Nut
Ha - god of the western deserts
Hapi or Hapy – deification of the annual flooding of the Nile, associated with fertility
Hathor or Hethert – cow or cow-goddess of the sky, fertility, love, beauty, and music
Hatmehit - fish goddess, originally a deification of the Nile River
Hauhet - female personification of infinity or eternity
Hedetet - scorpion goddess, later incorporated into Isis
Heka - deification of magic
Hemen - falcon god
Heqet – frog or a frog-headed goddess of childbirth and fertility
Hemsut - goddess of fate and protection
Heryshaf - ram god
Horus or Heru – falcon-headed god of the sky, pharaohs, war, and protection
The four sons of Horus - personifications of the four canopic jars
Hu - deification of the first word
Huh - deification of eternity
Iabet - goddess of the east, consort of Min, and cleanser of Ra
Iah - god of the moon
Iat - minor goddess of milk and, by association, of nurturing and childbirth
Imentet - goddess of the necropolis west of the Nile
Isis or Aset – goddess of magic, motherhood and fertility and consort of Osiris, represented as the throne
Iusaaset – a primal goddess described as "the grandmother of all of the deities"
Kauket - snake-headed female personification of darkness, whose consort was the frog-headed Kuk
Kebechet - goddess of embalming liquid and purification, a snake or ostrich
Khepri – the scarab beetle or scarab-headed god of rebirth and the sunrise
Kneph - a creator deity
Khnum – ram-headed creator god of the flooding of the Nile River
Khonsu – god of youth and the moon
Kuk – frog-headed personification of darkness, whose consort or female form was the snake-headed Kauket
Maahes – lion-headed god of war, weather
Ma'at – goddess who personified the order and balance of the universe; also know as a goddess of truth, balance, order, law, morality, and justice
Mafdet – goddess who protected against snakes and scorpions
Mehen - protective snake god which coils around the sun god Ra during his journey through the night
Menhit – goddess of war, associated with Sekhmet
Meret - goddess associated with rejoicing, singing, and dancing
Meretseger – cobra-goddess of tomb builders and protector of royal tombs
Meskhenet – goddess of childbirth and the creator of each person's Ka, a part of their soul, which she breathed into them at the moment of birth
Min – god of fertility and lettuce, often represented as a man with an erect penis
Mnevis – the sacred bull of Heliopolis
Monthu - falcon god of war
Mut – mother goddess, associated with the waters from which everything was born
Nefertem - god of healing and beauty
Nehebkau - guardian of the entrance to the underworld
Neith – goddess of creation, war, weaving, and the dead
Nekhbet – vulture goddess, patron of pharaohs and Upper Egypt
Neper - androgynous deification of grain
Nephthys or Nebthet – goddess of death, night, and lamentation; the nursing mother of Horus and the pharaohs
Nu – deification of the primordial watery abyss
Nut – goddess of the sky and heavens
Osiris or Wesir – merciful judge of the dead in the afterlife and consort of Isis
Pakhet – feline goddess, a synthesis of Sekhmet and Bast
Petbe - god of revenge
Ptah – creator deity, also a god of craft
Qebui – god of the north wind
Ra – the sun, also a creator deity, whose chief cult center was based in Heliopolis
Rem - fish god who fertilizes the land with his tears
Renenutet - cobra or snake goddess worshiped in Lower Egypt, associated with Wadjet, fate, and deification of the act of giving a true name during birth, later Geb was her husband
Saa or Sia - deification of perception
Satet – goddess of war, hunting, fertility, and the flooding of the Nile River
Sekhmet – lioness goddess of the sun, destruction, pestilence, and war; fierce protector of the pharaoh, and later as an aspect of Hathor; later identified as a sister to Bast
Seker or Sokar - falcon god of the Memphite necropolis
Serket – scorpion goddess of healing stings and bites
Seshat – goddess of writing, astronomy, astrology, architecture, and mathematics; depicted as a scribe
Set or Seth – god of the desert, storms, and foreigners; protector of Ra; later thought a manifestation of evil by foreign cultures
Shait or Shai - deification of the concept of fate
Shed - savior deity
Shezmu - god of execution, slaughter, blood, oil, and wine
Shu - god of the air
Sobek – crocodile god of the Nile, patron of the military
Sobkou - messenger god
Sopdet - goddess seen as the personification of the star Sothis, (Sirius)
Sopdu - personification of the scorching heat of the sun arriving after heliacal rising
Ta-Bitjet - scorpion goddess identified as the consort of Horus
Tatenen - bisexual (both feminine and masculine) deity of the primordial mound
Taweret – hippopotamus goddess of pregnant women and protector during childbirth
Tefnut – goddess of moisture, moist air, dew, and rain.
Tenenet - goddess of beer
Thoth or Djehuty – ibis-headed god of the moon, drawing, writing, geometry, wisdom, medicine, music, astronomy and magic
Unut - snake goddess
Wadjet – snake goddess and protector of Lower Egypt
Wadj-wer – fertility god and personification of the Mediterranean Sea or lakes of the Nile Delta
Weneg - plant god supporting the heavens
Werethekau - goddess of supernatural powers and protection of the deceased, associated with the crowns
Wepwawet – jackal god of warfare and hunting
Wosret – a guardian goddess of Thebes whose cult became prominent widly, protector of the young god Horus, an early consort of Amun, later superseded by Mut

HomePhilosophyTheology
Goddesses and Gods of the Ancient Egyptians: A Theological Encyclopedia
AKER
AMAUNET
AMENHOTEP, SON OF HAPU
AMENTET
AMMUT
AMUN
ANAT
ANDJETY
ANTINOUS
ANUBIS
ANUKIS
ANUPET
APEDEMAK
APIS
APOPHIS
ARENSNUPHIS
ARSAPHES
ASH
ASTARTE
ATEN
ATUM
BA’AL
BABI
BANEBDJEDET
BAST
BAT
BES
BESET
BUCHIS
DEDWEN
DUAMUTEF
DUNANWY
GEB
HA
HAPY (1)
HAPY (2)
HATHOR
HATMEHYT
HAUHET
HAURON
HEDEDYT
HEH
HEKA
HEMEN
HENET
HEQET
HERMOPOLITAN OGDOAD
HESAT
HORIT
HORUS
HORUS, SONS OF
HU
IGAI
IHY
IMHOTEP
IMSETY
IPY
ISIS
IUNYT
IUSAAS
KAUKET
KEBEHWET
KEBEHSENUF
KEK
KHENSUT
KHENTY-IRTY
KHENTY-KHETY
KHEPRI
KHERTY
KHNUM
KHONSU
KOLANTHES
MA’ET
MAFDET
MAHAF
MANDULIS
MEHEN
MEHENYT
MEHET-WERET (METHYER)
MEHYT
MENHYT
MERET
MERETSEGER
MESKHENET
MESTJET
MIHOS
MIN
MNEVIS
MONTU
MUT
NAUNET
NEBTU
NEFERTUM
NEHEBKAU
NEHMETAWAY
NEHY
NEITH
NEKHBET
NEMTY (ANTY)
NEPRY
NEPHTHYS
NUN
NUT
ONURIS
OSIRIS
PAKHET
PEDESI AND PIHOR
PTAH
QADESH
RAET (RAETTAWY)
RE
RENENUTET
RERET
RESHEP
SAH
SATIS
SEKHET
SEKHMET
SEPA
SERAPIS
SERKET
SESHAT
SETH
SHAI
SHED
SHESMETET
SHESMU
SHU
SIA
SOBEK
SOKAR
SOPED
SOTHIS
TABITHET
TAPSHAY
TATENEN
TAWERET (THOERIS)
TAYET
TEFNUT
THOTH
TJENENET
TRIPHIS (REPYT)
TUTU (TITHOES)
WADJET
WADJ-WER
WEDJARENES
WEKH
WENEG
WENNUT
WENTY
WEPWAWET
YAH
YAMM

Gods: A
Aa, Aah, Aapep, Abtu, Ah, Ahemait, Ahti(2), Ailuros, Aken, Aker, Amathaunta, Amaunet, Amemait, Amen, Amen Ra, Amen Re, Amenhotep, Ament, Amentet, Amentit, Ammam, Ammit, Ammon, Ammon Ra, Ammon Re, Ammut, Amn, Amon, Amon Ra, Amon Re, Amsit, Amun, Amun Ra, Amun Re, Anat, Andjety, Anedjti, Anet, Anezti, Anhur, Anit, Ankh, Ankhet, Ankt, Anouke, Anpu, Anti, Anubis, Anuket, Apademak, Apedemak, Apep, Apepi, Apet, Apis, Apophis, Aptet, Arensnuphis, Ari Hes Nefer, Arsnuphis, Aset, Aten, Aten Ra, Aten Re, Aton, Aton Ra, Aton Re, Atum, Atum Ra, Atum Re, 
Egyptian Gods: B
Ba, Ba Neb Tetet, Ba Pef, Bab, Babay, Babi, Baneb Djedet, Banebdedet, Banebdjedet, Banebdjetet, Banebtetet, Banephthysdjedet, Bast, Bastet, Bat, Bata, Benu, Bes, Beset, Book of the Dead, Buto, 
Egyptian Gods: C
Chenti Cheti, Chenti Irti, Chepri, Cherti, Chnemu, Chnoumis, Chnum, Chnuphis, Chons, Chontamenti, Cneph, 
Egyptian Gods: D
Dedun, Dedwen, Dua, Duamutef, 
Egyptian Gods: E
Ehi, Ernutet, 
Egyptian Gods: F
- No entries found.
Egyptian Gods: G
Geb, 
Egyptian Gods: H
Ha(2), Haap, Hah, Hap, Hapi, Hapy, Har Nedj Hef, Har Pa Khered, Har Pa Khruti, Harensnuphis, Harmakhis, Harmatchis, Haroeris, Harpakhered, Harpakhruti, Hat Mehit, Hathor, Hatmehit, Hatmehyt, Hauhet, Hedetet, Heget, Heh, Hehet, Hek, Heket, Hektet, Hemen, Hemsut, Hemuset, Henet, Hep, Hepi, Heptet, Heqet, Heret, Herishep, Heru Behudti, Hesa, Hesat, Het Mehit, Hetmehit, Hez Ur, Hike, Horus, Hu, Huh, 
Egyptian Gods: I
Iat, Ibis, Ienpw, Ihu, Ihy, Imentet, Imeut, Imhetep, Imhotep, Imiut, Imset, Imsety, Inher, Inmutef, Inpu, Ipet, Iptet, Ipy, Isis, Iunmutef, 
Egyptian Gods: J
Joh, 
Egyptian Gods: K
Ka, Kauket, Keb, Kebechet, Kebechsenef, Kehperi, Kek, Keket, Keku, Kemu, Kemur, Kemwer, Ken, Khem, Khensu, Kheper, Khepera, Khepri, Kherty, Khnemu, Khnum, Khons, Khonsu, Kneph, Knouphis, Kuk, 
Egyptian Gods: L
Lenpw, 
Egyptian Gods: M
Ma'at, Maat, Mafdet, Maftet, Mahes, Mehen, Mehet Uret, Mehet Weret, Mehturt, Mehurt, Menchit, Mendes, Menhit, Menthu, Mentu, Meret, Meretseger, Mert, Mertseger, Meskhenet, Meskhent, Min, Mnevis, Mnewer, Month, Monto, Mut, 
Egyptian Gods: N
Naunet, Neb Hut, Nebthet, Ned Er Tcher, Nef, Nefer Tem, Nefer Temu, Nefertem, Nefertum, Nehab, Nehebkau, Nehebkhau, Nehebu Kau, Neit, Neith, Nekhabed, Nekhbet, Neper, Nephthys, Nepit, Neteraantmwmw, Nu, Nuit, Nun, Nunet, Nut, 
Egyptian Gods: O
Ogdoad, Onuris, Opet, Osiris, 
Egyptian Gods: P
Petbe, Ptah, Ptha, 
Egyptian Gods: Q
Qadesh, Qadeshet, Qeb, Qetesh, Qudshu, 
Egyptian Gods: R
Ra, Re, Renenet, Renenutet, Renpet, Reret, Reret Weret, Reshep, Reshpu, 
Egyptian Gods: S
Sachmet, Sag, Sahu, Sakhmet, Sal, Satet, Seb, Sebek, Seker, Sekhet, Sekhmet, Selket, Selkit, Sep, Sepa, Septu, Serket, Serquet, Seshat, Sesmu, Set, Setekh, Setesh, Seth, Seti, Shai, Shait, Shay, Shed, Shenty, Shesmetet, Shu, Sobek, Sochet, Sokar, Sokaris, Soker, Sons of Horus, Sopd, Sopdet, Sopdu, Sopedu, Sothis, Sphinx, Su, Suchos, Sutekh, 
Egyptian Gods: T
Tahuti, Tatenen, Taueret, Taurt, Taweret, Tefen, Tefenet, Tefnet, Tefnut, Tehuti, Tem, Temu, Thoeris, Thot, Thoth, Tphenis, Tum, Tutu, 
Egyptian Gods: U
Uadjet, Ubastet, Un, Un Nefer, Uneg, Unut, Usire, 
Egyptian Gods: V
- No entries found.
Egyptian Gods: W
Wadj Wer, Wadjet, Waset, Wenut, Wepawet, Wosret, Wosyet, 
Egyptian Gods: X
- No entries found.
Egyptian Gods: Y
Yinepu, 
Egyptian Gods: Z
- No entries found.

List of Greek mythological figures
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Ancient Greek religion
Hellenismos

Features[show]
Doctrines[show]
Practices[show]
Deities[show]
Texts[show]
See also[show]
Hellenismos portal
v t e
This is a list of Greek mythological figures.

Contents  [hide] 
1 Immortals
1.1 Olympian deities
1.2 Primordial deities
1.3 Titans
1.4 Gigantes (giants)
1.5 Personified concepts
1.6 Chthonic deities
1.7 Sea deities
1.8 Sky deities
1.9 Rustic deities
1.10 Agricultural deities
1.11 Deified mortals
1.12 Health deities
1.13 Other deities
2 Mortals
2.1 Heroes
2.2 Notable women
2.3 Kings
2.4 Seers
2.5 Amazons
2.6 Inmates of Tartarus
2.7 Minor figures
3 See also
4 References
5 External links
[edit]Immortals

[edit]Olympian deities
Main article: Twelve Olympians
Ancient Greek name	English name	Description
Ἀφροδίτη (Aphroditē)	Aphrodite	The goddess of love, beauty and desire. Although married to Hephaestus she had many lovers, most notably Ares. She was depicted as a beautiful woman. Her symbols include the rose, scallop shell, pomegranate, and myrtle wreath. Her sacred animal is the dove.
Ἀπόλλων (Apóllōn)	Apollo	The god of music, healing, plague, the sun, prophecies, and poetry, ; associated with light, truth and the sun. He is Artemis' twin brother and Hermes' elder (half)brother, and son of Zeus and Leto. He was depicted as a handsome, beardless youth with long hair and various attributes including a laurel wreath, bow and quiver, raven, and lyre. Animals sacred to Apollo include: roe deer, swans, cicadas, hawks, ravens, crows, foxes, and snakes.
Ἄρης (Árēs)	Ares	The god of war, bloodlust, violence, manly courage, and civil order. The son of Zeus and Hera, he was depicted as either a mature, bearded warrior dressed in battle arms, or a nude beardless youth with helm and spear. His attributes are golden armour and a bronze-tipped spear. His sacred animals are the vulture, venomous snakes, alligators, dogs, and boars.
Ἄρτεμις (Ártemis)	Artemis	Virgin goddess of the hunt, wilderness, animals, young girls, childbirth and plague. In later times she became associated with the moon. She is the daughter of Zeus and Leto, and twin sister of Apollo. In art she was usually depicted as a young woman dressed in a short knee-length chiton and equipped with a hunting bow and a quiver of arrows. In addition to the bow, her attributes include hunting spears, animal pelts, deer and other wild animals. Her sacred animals are deer, bears, and wild boars.
Ἀθηνᾶ (Athēnâ)	Athena	The goddess of wisdom, warfare, battle strategy, heroic endeavour, handicrafts and reason. According to most traditions, she was born from Zeus's head fully formed and armored. She was depicted crowned with a crested helm, armed with shield and a spear. Her symbol is the olive tree. She is commonly shown accompanied by her sacred animal, the owl.
Δημήτηρ (Dēmētēr)	Demeter	The goddess of agriculture, horticulture, grain and harvest. Demeter is a daughter of Cronus and Rhea and sister of Zeus, by whom she bore Persephone. She was depicted as a mature woman, often crowned and holding sheafs of wheat and a torch. Her symbols are the Cornucopia (horn of plenty), wheat-ears, the winged serpent and the lotus staff. Her sacred animals are pigs and snakes.
Διόνυσος (Diónysos)	Dionysus	The god of wine, parties and festivals, madness, chaos, drunkenness and pleasure at forever young. He was depicted in art as either an older bearded god or a pretty effeminate, long-haired youth. His attributes include the thyrsus (a pinecone-tipped staff), drinking cup, grape vine, and a crown of ivy. Animals sacred to him include dolphins, serpents, tigers, and donkeys. A later addition to the Olympians, in some accounts he replaced Hestia.
ᾍδης (Hádēs)	Hades	King of the Underworld and god of the dead and the hidden wealth of the Earth. His consort is Persephone and his attributes are the key of Hades, the Helm of Darkness, and the three-headed dog, Cerberus. The screech owl was sacred to him. Despite being the son of Cronus and Rhea and the elder brother of Zeus, as a chthonic god he is only rarely listed among the Olympians. The name Pluto became more common in the Classical period with the mystery religions and Athenian literature. He did not have a throne in Olympus, but is still very known for being one of the three sons of Cronus.
Ἥφαιστος (Hḗphaistos)	Hephaestus	Crippled god of fire, metalworking, stonemasonry, sculpture and volcanism. The son of Hera by parthenogenesis, he is the smith of the gods and the husband of the adulterous Aphrodite. He was usually depicted as a bearded man holding hammer and tongs—the tools of a smith—and riding a donkey. His symbols are the hammer, tongs, and anvil. His sacred animals are the donkey, the guard dog and the crane.
Ἥρα (Hḗra)	Hera	Queen of marriage, women, childbirth, heirs, kings and empires. She is the wife of Zeus and daughter of Cronus and Rhea. She was usually depicted as a beautiful woman wearing a crown and veil and holding a royal, lotus-tipped staff. Her sacred animals are the heifer, the lion, the peacock, and the cuckoo.
Ἑρμῆς (Hērmēs)	Hermes	The god of travel, messengers, trade, thievery, cunning wiles, language, writing, diplomacy, athletics, and animal husbandry. He is the messenger of the gods, a psychopomp who leads the souls of the dead into Hades' realm, and the son of Zeus and Maia. He was depicted either as a handsome and athletic beardless youth, or as an older bearded man. His attributes include the herald's wand or caduceus, winged sandals, and a traveler's cap. His sacred animals are the tortoise, the ram, and the hawk.
Ἑστία (Hestía)	Hestia	Virgin goddess of the hearth, home and cooking. She is a daughter of Rhea and Cronus and sister of Zeus. She was depicted as a modestly veiled woman, whose symbols are the hearth and kettle. In some accounts, she gave up her seat as one of the Twelve Olympians in favor of Dionysus.
Ποσειδῶν (Poseidōn)	Poseidon	The god of the sea, rivers, floods, droughts, earthquakes, and the creator of horses; known as the "Earth Shaker". He is a son of Cronus and Rhea and brother to Zeus and Hades. In classical artwork, he was depicted as a mature man of sturdy build with a dark beard, and holding a trident. The horse and the dolphin are sacred to him.
Ζεύς (Zeus)	Zeus	The king of the gods, the ruler of Mount Olympus and the god of the sky, weather, thunder, lightning, law, order, and fate. He is the youngest son of Cronus and Rhea, whom he overthrew after Cronus swallowed his brothers and sisters and he is brother-husband to Hera. In artwork, he was depicted as a regal, mature man with a sturdy figure and dark beard. His usual attributes are the royal scepter and the lightning bolt, and his sacred animals are the eagle and the bull.
[edit]Primordial deities
Ancient Greek name	English name	Description
Αἰθήρ (Aithḗr)	Aether	The god of the upper air and light.
Ἀνάγκη (Anánkē)	Ananke	The goddess of inevitability, compulsion, and necessity.
Ἔρεβος (Érebos)	Erebos or Erebus	The god of darkness and shadow.
Γαῖα (Gaîa)	Gaia or Gaea or Ge	Personification of the Earth (Mother Earth); mother of the Titans.
Ἡμέρα (Hēméra)	Hemera	Goddess of daylight.
Χάος (Cháos)	Chaos	The nothingness from which all else sprang.
Χρόνος (Chrónos)	Chronos	The god of time. Not to be confused with the Titan Cronus, the father of Zeus.
Nῆσοι (Nē̂soi)	The Nesoi	The goddesses of the islands.
Νύξ (Nýx)	Nyx or Night	The goddess of night.
Οὐρανός (Ouranós)	Uranus	The god of the heavens (Father Sky); father of the Titans.
Οὔρεα (Oúrea)	The Ourea	The gods of mountains.
Φάνης (Phánēs)	Phanes	The god of procreation in the Orphic tradition.
Πόντος (Póntos)	Pontus	The god of the sea, father of the fish and other sea creatures.
Τάρταρος (Tártaros)	Tartarus	The darkest, deepest part of the underworld.
Θάλασσα (Thálassa)	Thalassa	Spirit of the sea and consort of Pontos.
[edit]Titans
Greek name	English name	Description
The Twelve Titans
Ὑπερίων (Hyperíōn)	Hyperion	Titan of light. With Theia, he is the father of Helios (the sun), Selene (the moon) and Eos (the dawn).
Ἰαπετός (Iapetós)	Iapetus	Titan of mortality and father of Prometheus, Epimetheus, Menoetius and Atlas.
Κοῖος (Koîos)	Coeus	Titan of intellect and the axis of heaven around which the constellations revolved.
Κρεῖος (Kreîos)	Crius	The least individualized of the Twelve Titans, he is the father of Astraios, Pallas and Perses.
Κρόνος (Crónos)	Cronus	The leader of the Titans, who overthrew his father Uranus only to be overthrown in turn by his son, Zeus. Not to be confused with Chronos, the god of time.
Mνημοσύνη (Mnēmosýnē)	Mnemosyne	Titan of memory and remembrance, and mother of the Nine Muses.
Ὠκεανός (Ōceanós)	Oceanus	Titan of the all-encircling river Oceanus around the earth, the font of all the Earth's fresh-water.
Φοίβη (Phoíbē)	Phoebe	Titan of the "bright" intellect and prophecy, and consort of Koios.
Ῥέα (Rhéa)	Rhea	Titan of female fertility, motherhood, and generation. She is the sister and consort of Cronus, and mother of Zeus, Hades, Poseidon, Hera, Demeter and Hestia.
Τηθύς (Tēthýs)	Tethys	Wife of Oceanus, and the mother of the rivers, springs, streams, fountains and clouds.
Θεία (Theía)	Theia	Titan of sight and the shining light of the clear blue sky. She is the consort of Hyperion, and mother of Helios, Selene and Eos.
Θέμις (Thémis)	Themis	Titan of divine law and order.
Other Titans
Ἀστερία (Astería)	Asteria	Titan of nocturnal oracles and falling stars.
Ἀστραῖος (Astraîos)	Astraeus	Titan of stars and planets, and the art of astrology.
Ἄτλας (Átlas)	Atlas	Titan forced to carry the sky upon his shoulders. Also Son of Iapetus.
Αὔρα (Aúra)	Aura	Titan of the breeze and the fresh, cool air of early morning.
Διώνη (Diṓnē)	Dione	Titan of the oracle of Dodona.
Ἠώς (Ēṓs)	Eos	Titan of the dawn.
Ἐπιμηθεύς (Epimētheús)	Epimetheus	Titan of afterthought and the father of excuses.
Εὐρυβία (Eurybía)	Eurybia	Titan of the mastery of the seas and consort of Krios.
Εὐρυνόμη (Eurynómē)	Eurynome	Titan of water-meadows and pasturelands, and mother of the three Charites by Zeus.
Ἥλιος (Hḗlios)	Helios	Titan of the sun and guardian of oaths.
Κλυμένη (Clyménē)	Clymene or Asia	Titan of renown, fame and infamy, and wife of Iapetos.
Λήλαντος (Lēlantos)	Lelantos	Titan of air and the hunter's skill of stalking prey. He is the male counterpart of Leto.
Λητώ (Lētṓ)	Leto	Titan of motherhood and mother of Artemis and Apollo.
Μενοίτιος (Menoítios)	Menoetius	Titan of violent anger, rash action, and human mortality. Killed by Zeus.
Μῆτις (Mē̂tis)	Metis	Titan of good counsel, advice, planning, cunning, craftiness and wisdom, and mother of Athena.
Ὀφίων (Ophíōn)	Ophion	An elder Titan, in some versions of the myth he ruled the Earth with his consort Eurynome before Cronus overthrew him.
Πάλλας (Pállas)	Pallas	Titan of warcraft. He was killed by Athena during the Titanomachy.
Πέρσης (Pérsēs)	Perses	Titan of destruction and peace.
Προμηθεύς (Promētheús)	Prometheus	Titan of forethought and crafty counsel, and creator of mankind.
Σελήνη (Selḗnē)	Selene	Titan of the moon.
Στύξ (Stýx)	Styx	Titan of the Underworld river Styx and personification of hatred.
[edit]Gigantes (giants)
The Hekatoncheires (Ἑκατόγχειρες), or Centimanes (Latin), the Hundred-Handed Ones, giant gods of violent storms and hurricanes. Three sons of Uranus and Gaea, each with their own distinct characters.[1]
Briareus or Aigaion (Βριάρεως), The Vigorous
Cottus (Κόττος), The Furious
Gyges (Γύγης), The Big-Limbed
Agrius (Ἄγριος), a man-eating Thracian giant who was half-man and half-bear
Alcyoneus (Ἀλκυονεύς), the king of the Thracian giants, who was slain by Heracles
Aloadae (Ἀλῳάδαι), twin giants who attempted to storm heaven
Otos (Ότος)
Ephialtes (Εφιάλτης)
Antaeus (Ἀνταῖος), a Libyan giant who wrestled all visitors to the death until he was slain by Heracles
Argus Panoptes (Ἄργος Πανόπτης), a hundred-eyed giant tasked with guarding over Io
Cyclopes (Elder), three one-eyed giants who forged the lightning-bolts of Zeus
Arges (Ἄργης)
Brontes (Βρόντης)
Steropes (Στερόπης)
Cyclopes (Younger), a tribe of one-eyed, man-eating giants who shepherded flocks of sheep on the island of Sicily
Polyphemus (Πολύφημος), a cyclops who briefly captured Odysseus and his men, only to be overcome and blinded by the hero
Enceladus (Ἐγκέλαδος), one of the Thracian giants who made war on the gods
The Gegenees (Γηγενέες), a tribe of six-armed giants fought by the Argonauts on Bear Mountain in Mysia
Geryon (Γηρυών), a three-bodied, four-winged giant who dwelt on the red island of Erytheia
The Laestrygonians (Λαιστρυγόνες), a tribe of man-eating giants encountered by Odysseus on his travels
Orion (Ὠρίων), a giant huntsman whom Zeus placed among the stars as the constellation of Orion
Porphyrion (Πορφυρίων), the king of the Gigantes who was struck down by Heracles and Zeus with arrows and lightning-bolts after he attempted to rape Hera
Talos (Τάλως), a giant forged from bronze by Hephaestus, and gifted by Zeus to his lover Europa as her personal protector
Tityos (Τίτυος), a giant slain by Apollo and Artemis when he attempted to violate their mother Leto.
Typhon (Τυφῶν), a monstrous immortal storm-giant who was defeated and imprisoned in the pits of Tartarus
[edit]Personified concepts
Achlys (Ἀχλύς), spirit of the death-mist
Adephagia (Ἀδηφαγία), spirit of satiety and gluttony
Adikia (Ἀδικία), spirit of injustice and wrong-doing
Aergia (Ἀεργία), spirit of idleness, laziness, indolence and sloth
Agon (Ἀγών), spirit of contest, who possessed an altar at Olympia, site of the Olympic Games.
Aidos (Αἰδώς), spirit of modesty, reverence and respect
Aisa (Αἴσα), personification of lot and fate
Alala (Ἀλαλά), spirit of the war cry
Alastor (Ἀλάστωρ), spirit of blood feuds and vengeance
Aletheia (Ἀλήθεια), spirit of truth, truthfulness and sincerity
The Algea (Ἄλγεα), spirits of pain and suffering
Achos (Ἄχος) "trouble, distress"
Ania (Ἀνία) "ache, anguish"
Lupe (Λύπη) "pain, grief, sadness"
Alke (Ἀλκή), spirit of prowess and courage
Amechania (Ἀμηχανία), spirit of helplessness and want of means
The Amphilogiai (Ἀμφιλογίαι), spirits of disputes, debate and contention
Anaideia (Ἀναίδεια), spirit of ruthlessness, shamelessness, and unforgivingness
The Androktasiai (Ἀνδροκτασίαι), spirits of battlefield slaughter
Angelia (Ἀγγελία), spirit of messages, tidings and proclamations
Apate (Ἀπάτη), spirit of deceit, guile, fraud and deception
Apheleia (Ἀφέλεια), spirit of simplicity
Aporia (Ἀπορία), spirit of difficulty, perplexity, powerlessness and want of means
The Arae (Ἀραί), spirits of curses
Arete (Ἀρετή), spirit of virtue, excellence, goodness and valour
Atë (Ἄτη), spirit of delusion, infatuation, blind folly, recklessness and ruin
Bia (Βία), spirit of force, power, bodily strength and compulsion
Caerus (Καιρός), spirit of opportunity
Corus (Κόρος), spirit of surfeit
Deimos (Δεῖμος), spirit of fear, dread and terror
Dikaiosyne (Δικαιοσύνη), spirit of justice and righteousness
Dike (Δίκη), spirit of justice, fair judgements and the rights established by custom and law
Dolos (Δόλος), spirit of trickery, cunning deception, craftiness, treachery and guile
Dysnomia (Δυσνομία), spirit of lawlessness and poor civil constitution
Dyssebeia (Δυσσέβεια), spirit of impiety
Eirene (Εἰρήνη), goddess of peace
Ekecheiria (Ἐκεχειρία), spirit of truce, armistice, and the cessation of all hostilities; honoured at the Olympic Games
Eleos (Ἔλεος), spirit of mercy, pity and compassion
Elpis (Ἐλπίς), spirit of hope and expectation
Epiphron (Ἐπίφρων), spirit of prudence, shrewdness, thoughtfulness, carefulness and sagacity
Eris (Ἔρις), spirit of strife, discord, contention and rivalry
The Erotes (ἔρωτες)
Anteros (Ἀντέρως), god of requited love
Eros (Ἔρως), god of love and sexual intercourse
Hedylogos (Ἡδύλογος), god of sweet talk and flattery
Himeros (Ἵμερος), god of sexual desire
Pothos (Πόθος), god of sexual longing, yearning and desire
Eucleia (Εὔκλεια), spirit of good repute and glory
Eulabeia (Εὐλάβεια), spirit of discretion, caution and circumspection
Eunomia (Εὐνομία), goddess of good order and lawful conduct
Eupheme (Εὐφήμη), spirit of words of good omen, acclamation, praise, applause and shouts of triumph
Eupraxia (Eὐπραξία), spirit of well-being
Eusebeia (Eὐσέβεια), spirit of piety, loyalty, duty and filial respect
Euthenia (Εὐθενία), spirit of prosperity, abundance and plenty
Gelos (Γέλως), spirit of laughter
Geras (Γῆρας), spirit of old age
Harmonia (Ἁρμονία), goddess of harmony and concord
Hebe (Ήβη), goddess of youth
Hedone (Ἡδονή), spirit of pleasure, enjoyment and delight
Heimarmene (Εἵμαρμένη), personification of share destined by fate
Homados (Ὅμαδος), spirit of the din of battle
Homonoia (Ὁμόνοια), spirit of concord, unanimity, and oneness of mind
Horkos (Ὅρκος), spirit of oaths
Horme (Ὁρμή), spirit of impulse or effort (to do a thing), eagerness, setting oneself in motion, and starting an action
Hybris (Ὕβρις), spirit of outrageous behaviour
Hypnos (Ὕπνος), god of sleep
The Hysminai (Ὑσμῖναι), spirits of fighting and combat
Ioke (Ἰωκή), spirit of pursuit in battle
Kakia (Kακία), spirit of vice and moral badness
Kalokagathia (Καλοκαγαθία), spirit of nobility
The Keres (Κῆρες), spirit of violent or cruel death
Koalemos (Κοάλεμος), spirit of stupidity and foolishness
Kratos (Κράτος), spirit of strength, might, power and sovereign rule
Kydoimos (Κυδοιμός), spirit of the din of battle, confusion, uproar and hubbub
Lethe (Λήθη), spirit of forgetfulness and oblivion, and of the river of the same name
Limos (Λιμός), spirit of hunger and starvation
The Litae (Λιταί), spirits of prayer
Lyssa (Λύσσα), spirit of rage, fury and rabies in animals
The Machai (Μάχαι), spirits of fighting and combat
Mania (Μανία), spirit or spirits of madness, insanity and frenzy
The Moirai, or "Fates" (Μοίραι)
Clotho (Κλωθώ), the spinner of the life thread
Lachesis (Λάχεσις), the measurer of the life thread
Atropos (Άτροπος), the severer of the life thread
Momus (Μῶμος), spirit of mockery, blame, censure and stinging criticism
Moros (Μόρος), spirit of doom
The Neikea (τὰ Νείκη), spirits of quarrels, feuds and grievances
Nemesis (Νέμεσις), goddess of revenge, balance, righteous indignation and retribution
Nike (Νίκη), goddess of victory
Nomos (Νόμος), spirit of law
Oizys (Ὀϊζύς), spirit of woe and misery
The Oneiroi (Ὄνειροι), spirits of dreams
Epiales (Ἐπιάλης), spirit of nightmares
Morpheus (Μορφεύς), god of dreams, who takes shape of humans
Phantasos (Φάντασος) spirit of dreams of fantasy, who takes shape of inanimate objects
Phobetor (Φοβήτωρ) or Icelos (Ἴκελος), spirit of nightmares, who takes shape of animals
Palioxis (Παλίωξις), spirit of backrush, flight and retreat from battle
Peitharchia (Πειθαρχία), spirit of obedience
Peitho (Πειθώ), spirit of persuasion and seduction
Penia (Πενία), spirit of poverty and need
Penthus (Πένθος), spirit of grief, mourning and lamentation
Pepromene (Πεπρωμένη), personification of the destined share, similar to Heimarmene
Pheme (Φήμη), spirit of rumour, report and gossip
Philophrosyne (Φιλοφροσύνη), spirit of friendliness, kindness and welcome
Philotes (Φιλότης), spirit of friendship, affection and sexual intercourse
Phobos (Φόβος), spirit of panic fear, flight and battlefield rout
The Phonoi (Φόνοι), spirits of murder, killing and slaughter
Phrike (Φρίκη), spirit of horror and trembling fear
Phthonus (Φθόνος), spirit of envy and jealousy
Pistis (Πίστις), spirit of trust, honesty and good faith
Poine (Ποίνη), spirit of retribution, vengeance, recompense, punishment and penalty for the crime of murder and manslaughter
Polemos (Πόλεμος), personification of war
Ponos (Πόνος), spirit of hard labour and toil
Poros (Πόρος), spirit of expediency, the means of accomplishing or providing, contrivance and device
Praxidike (Πραξιδίκη), spirit of exacting justice
Proioxis (Προίωξις), spirit of onrush and battlefield pursuit
Prophasis (Πρόφασις), spirit of excuses and pleas
The Pseudologoi, spirits of lies
Ptocheia (Πτωχεία), spirit of beggary
Soter (Σωτήρ), male spirit of safety, preservation and deliverance from harm
Soteria (Σωτηρία), female personification of safety, preservation and deliverance from harm
Sophrosyne (Σωφροσύνη), spirit of moderation, self-control, temperance, restraint, and discretion
Techne (Τέχνη), personification of art and skill
Thanatos (Θάνατος), spirit of death and mortality
Thrasos (Θράσος), spirit of boldness
Tyche (Τύχη), goddess of fortune, chance, providence and fate
Zelos ( Ζῆλος), spirit of eager rivalry, emulation, envy, jealousy and zeal
[edit]Chthonic deities
Amphiaraus (Ἀμφιάραος), a hero of the war of the Seven Against Thebe who became an oracular spirit of the Underworld after his death
Angelos (Ἄγγελος), a daughter of Zeus and Hera who became an underworld goddess
Askalaphos (Ἀσκάλαφος), the son of Acheron and Orphne who tended the Underworld orchards before being transformed into a screech owl by Demeter
Cerberus (Κέρβερος), the three-headed hound who guarded the gates of Hades
Charon (Χάρων), ferryman of Hades
Empusa (Ἔμπουσα), a monstrous underworld spirit or spirits with flaming hair, the leg of a goat and a leg of bronze. They are also servants of Hecate.
Erebos (Ἔρεβος), the primeval god of darkness, his mists encircled the underworld and filled the hollows of the earth
The Erinyes (Ἐρινύες), the Furies, goddesses of retribution
Alecto (Ἀληκτώ), the unceasing one
Tisiphone (Τισιφόνη), avenger of murder
Megaera (Μέγαιρα), the jealous one
Hecate (Ἑκάτη), goddess of magic, witchcraft, the night, moon, ghosts and necromancy
Judges of the Dead
Aiakos (Αἰακός), former mortal king of Aegina, guardian of the keys of Hades and judge of the men of Europe
Minos (Μίνως), former mortal king of Crete and judge of the final vote
Rhadamanthys (Ῥαδάμανθυς), former mortal lawmaker and judge of the men of Asia
Keuthonymos (Κευθόνυμος), an Underworld spirit and father of Menoetes
Cronus (Κρόνος), deposed king of the Titans; after his release from Tartarus he was appointed king of the Island of the Blessed
Lamia (Λάμια), a vampiric Underworld spirit or spirits in the train of Hecate
Lampades (Λαμπάδες), torch-bearing Underworld nymphs
Gorgyra (Γοργύρα)
Orphne (Ορφνη), a Lampad nymph of Hades, mother of Askalaphos
Macaria (Μακαρία), daughter of Hades and goddess of blessed death (not to be confused with the daughter of Heracles)
Melinoe (Μελινόη), daughter of Persephone and Zeus who presided over the propitiations offered to the ghosts of the dead
Menoetes (Μενοίτης), an Underworld spirit who herded the cattle of Hades
Mormo (Μορμώ), a fearsome Underworld spirit or spirits in the train of Hecate
Nyx (Νύξ), the primeval goddess of night
Persephone (Περσεφόνη), queen of the underworld, wife of Hades and goddess of spring growth
Rivers of the Underworld
Acheron (Αχέρων), the river of pain
Kokytos (Kωκυτός), the river of wailing
Lethe (Λήθη), the river of forgetfulness
Phlegethon (Φλεγέθων), the river of fire
Styx (Στύξ), the river of hate
Tartarus (Τάρταρος), the primeval god of the dark, stormy pit of Hades
Thanatos (Θάνατος), spirit of death and minister of Hades
[edit]Sea deities
Aegaeon (Αιγαίων), god of violent sea storms and ally of the Titans
Acheilos (Αχειλος), shark-shaped sea spirit
Amphitrite (Αμφιτρίτη), sea goddess and consort of Poseidon
Benthesikyme (Βενθεσικύμη), daughter of Poseidon, who resided in Ethiopia
Brizo (Βριζώ), patron goddess of sailors, who sent prophetic dreams
Ceto (Κῆτώ), goddess of the dangers of the ocean and of sea monsters
Charybdis (Χάρυβδις), a sea monster and spirit of whirlpools and the tide
Cymopoleia (Κυμοπόλεια), a daughter of Poseidon married to the Giant Briareus
Delphin (Δέλφιν), the leader of the dolphins, Poseidon placed him in the sky as the constellation Delphin
Eidothea (Ειδοθέα), prophetic sea nymph and daughter of Proteus
Glaucus (Γλαῦκος), the fisherman's sea god
Gorgons (Γοργόνες), three monstrous sea spirits
Stheno (Σθεννώ)
Euryale (Εὐρυάλη)
Medusa (Μέδουσα), the only mortal of the three
The Graeae (Γραῖαι), three ancient sea spirits who personified the white foam of the sea; they shared one eye and one tooth between them
Deino (Δεινώ)
Enyo (Ενυώ)
Pemphredo (Πεμφρεδώ)
The Harpies (Ηάρπυιαι), winged spirits of sudden, sharp gusts of wind
Aello (Αελλώ) or Aellope (Αελλώπη) or Aellopous (Αελλόπους)
Ocypete (Ωκυπέτη) or Ocypode (Ωκυπόδη) or Ocythoe (Ωκυθόη)
Podarge (Ποδάργη) or Podarke (Ποδάρκη)
Celaeno (Κελαινώ)
Nicothoe (Νικοθόη)
Hippocampi (ἱπποκαμπος), the horses of the sea they are half horse with the tail of a fish
Hydros (Ὑδρος), primordial god of waters
The Ichthyocentaurs (Ιχθυοκένταυροι), a pair of centaurine sea-gods with the upper bodies of men, the lower fore-parts of horses, ending in the serpentine tails of fish
Bythos (Βύθος) "sea depth"
Aphros (Άφρος) "sea foam"
Karkinos (Καρκίνος), a giant crab who allied itself with the Hydra against Heracles. When it died, Hera placed it in the sky as the constellation Cancer.
Ladon (Λάδων), a hundred-headed sea serpent who guarded the western reaches of the sea, and the island and golden apples of the Hesperides
Leucothea (Λευκοθέα), a sea goddess who aided sailors in distress
Nereides (Νηρηίδες), sea nymphs
Thetis (Θέτις), leader of the Nereids who presided over the spawning of marine life in the sea
Arethusa (Αρετούσα), a daughter of Nereus who was transformed into a fountain
Galene (Γαλήνη), goddess of calm seas
Psamathe (Πσαμάθη), goddess of sand beaches
Nereus (Νηρέας), the old man of the sea, and the god of the sea's rich bounty of fish
Nerites (Νερίτης), a sea spirit who was transformed into a shell-fish by Aphrodite
Oceanus (Ὠκεανός), Titan god of the Earth-encircling river Oceanus, the font of all the Earth's fresh-water
Palaemon (Παλαίμων), a young sea god who aided sailors in distress
Phorcys (Φόρκυς), god of the hidden dangers of the deep
Pontos (Πόντος), primeval god of the sea, father of the fish and other sea creatures
Poseidon (Ποσειδῶν), king of the sea and lord of the sea gods; also god of rivers, flood and drought, earthquakes, and horses
Proteus (Πρωτεύς), a shape-shifting, prophetic old sea god, and the herdsman of Poseidon's seals
Scylla (Σκύλλα), monstrous sea goddess
The Sirens (Σειρῆνες), sea nymphs who lured sailors to their death with their song
Aglaope (Αγλαόπη) or Aglaophonos (Αγλαόφωνος) or Aglaopheme (Αγλαοφήμη)
Himerope (Ίμερόπη)
Leucosia (Λευκοσία)
Ligeia (Λιγεία)
Molpe (Μολπή)
Parthenope (Παρθενόπη)
Peisinoe (Πεισινόη) or Peisithoe (Πεισιθόη)
Raidne (Ραίδνη)
Teles (Τέλης)
Thelchtereia (Θελχτήρεια)
Thelxiope (Θελξιόπη) or Thelxiepeia (Θελξιέπεια)
The Telchines (Τελχινες), sea spirits native to the island of Rhodes; the gods killed them when they turned to evil magic
Actaeus (Ακταιος)
Argyron (Αργυρών)
Atabyrius (Αταβύριος)
Chalcon (Χαλκών)
Chryson (Χρυσών)
Damon (Δαμων) or Demonax (Δημώναξ)
Damnameneus (Δαμναμενεύς)
Dexithea (Δεξιθέα), mother of Euxanthios by Minos
Lycos (Λύκος) or Lyktos (Λύκτος)
Lysagora (Λυσαγόρα)?
Makelo (Μακελώ)
Megalesius (Μεγαλήσιος)
Mylas (Μύλας)
Nikon (Νίκων)
Ormenos (Ορμενος)
Simon (Σίμων)
Skelmis (Σκελμις)
Tethys (Τηθύς), wife of Oceanus, and the mother of the rivers, springs, streams, fountains and clouds
Thalassa (Θάλασσα), primeval spirit of the sea and consort of Pontos
Thaumas (Θαῦμας), god of the wonders of the sea
Thoosa (Θόοσα), goddess of swift currents
Triteia (Τριτεια), daughter of Triton and companion of Ares
Triton (Τρίτων), fish-tailed son and herald of Poseidon
Tritones (Τρίτωνες), fish-tailed spirits in Poseidon's retinue
[edit]Sky deities
Achelois (Ἀχελωΐς), "she who washes pain away", a minor moon goddess
Aeolus (Aiolos) (Αίολος), god of the winds.
Aether (Αιθήρ), primeval god of the upper air
Alectrona (Αλεκτρονα), solar goddess of the morning or waking up
Anemoi, gods of the winds
Boreas (Βορέας), god of the north wind and of winter
Eurus (Εύρος), god of the unlucky east or southeast wind
Notus (Νότος) god of the south wind
Zephyrus (Ζέφυρος), god of the west wind
Aparctias (Απαρκτίας), another name for the north wind (not identified with Boreas)
Apheliotes (Αφηλιώτης), god of the east wind (when Eurus is considered southeast)
Argestes (Αργέστης), another name for the west or northwest wind
Caicias (Καικίας), god of the northeast wind
Circios (Κίρκιος) or Thraskias (Θρασκίας), god of the north-northwest wind
Euronotus (Ευρονότος), god of the southeast wind
Lips (Λίψ), god of the southwest wind
Skeiron (Σκείρων), god of the northwest wind
Arke (Άρκη), messenger of the Titans and twin sister of Iris
Astraios (Ἀστραῖος), Titan god of stars and planets, and the art of astrology
The Astra Planeti (Αστρα Πλανετοι), gods of the five wandering stars or planets
Stilbon (Στιλβών), god of Hermaon, the planet Mercury
Eosphorus (Ηωσφόρος), god of Venus the morning star
Hesperus (Ἓσπερος), god of Venus the evening star
Pyroeis (Πυρόεις), god of Areios, the planet Mars
Phaethon (Φαέθων), god of Dios, the planet Jupiter
Phaenon (Φαίνων), god of Kronion, the planet Saturn
Aurai (Αὖραι), nymphs of the cooling breeze
Aura (Αὖρα), goddess of the breeze and the fresh, cool air of early morning
Chaos (Χάος), the nothingness from which all else sprang, she also represented the lower atmosphere which surrounded the earth
Chione (Χιόνη), goddess of snow and daughter of Boreas
Helios (Ἥλιος), Titan god of the sun and guardian of oaths
Selene (Σελήνη), Titan goddess of the moon
Eos (Ἠώς), Titan goddess of the dawn
Hemera (Ημέρα), primeval goddess of daylight and the sun
Hera (Ήρα), Queen of Heaven and goddess of the air and starry constellations
Herse (Ἕρση), goddess of the morning dew
The Hesperides (Ἑσπερίδες)
The Hyades, nymphs that represented a star cluster in the constellation Taurus and were associated with rain
Iris (Ίρις), goddess of the rainbow and divine messenger
The Menae (Μήναι), fifty goddesses of phases of the moon and the fifty lunar months of the four-year Olympiad
Nephelai (Νεφήλαι), cloud nymphs
Ouranos (Ουρανός), primeval god of the heavens
Pandia (Πανδία), daughter of Selene and Zeus; goddess of the full moon and of the earth-nourishing dew
The Pleiades (Πλειάδες), goddesses of the constellation Pleiades
Alcyone (Αλκυόνη)
Sterope (Στερόπη)
Celaeno (Κελαινώ)
Electra (Ηλέκτρα)
Maia (Μαία)
Merope (Μερόπη)
Taygete (Ταϋγέτη)
Zeus (Ζεύς), King of Heaven and god of the sky, clouds, rain, thunder and lightning
[edit]Rustic deities
Aetna (Αἴτνη), goddess of the volcanic Mount Etna in Sicily
Amphictyonis (Αμφικτυονίς), goddess of wine and friendship between nations, a local form of Demeter
Anthousai (Ανθούσαι), flower nymphs
Aristaeus (Ἀρισταῖος), god of bee-keeping, cheese-making, herding, olive-growing and hunting
Attis (Άττις), vegetation god and consort of Cybele
Britomartis (Βριτόμαρτις), Cretan goddess of hunting and nets used for fishing, fowling and the hunting of small game
Cabeiri (Κάβειροι), gods or spirits who presided over the Mysteries of the islands of Lemnos and Samothrace
Aitnaios (Αιτναιος)
Alkon (Αλκων)
Eurymedon (Ευρυμεδών)
Onnes (Όννης)
Tonnes (Τόννης)
Centaurs (Κένταυροι), a race of half-man, half-horse beings
Asbolus (Άσβολος)
Chariclo (Χαρικλώ), wife of the centaur Chiron
Chiron (Χείρων), the eldest and wisest of the Centaurs
Eurytion (Ευρυτιων)
Nessus (Νέσσος), a ferryman at the river Euenus
Pholus (Φώλος)
The Cercopes (Κέρκοπες), a pair of monkey-like thieves who plagued the land of Lydia in western Anatolia
Akmon (Ακμών)
Passalos (Πάσσαλος)
Chloris (Χλωρίς), goddess of flowers and wife of Zephyrus
Comus (Κόμος), god of revelry, merrymaking and festivity
Corymbus (Κόρυμβος), god of the fruit of the ivy
The Curetes (Κουρέτες), guardians of infant Zeus on Mount Ida, barely distinguished from the Dactyls and the Corybantes
Cybele (Κυβέλη), a Phrygian mountain goddess associated with Rhea
The Dactyls (Δάκτυλοι)"fingers", minor deities originally representing fingers of a hand
Acmon (Ακμών)
Damnameneus (Δαμναμενεύς)
Delas (Δήλας)
Epimedes (Επιμήδης)
Heracles (not to be confused with the hero Heracles)
Iasios (Ιάσιος)
Kelmis (Κελμις)
Skythes (Σκύθης)
Dionysus (Διόνυσος), god of wine, drunken orgies and wild vegetation
Dryades (Δρυάδες), tree and forest nymphs
Gaia (Γαία), primeval goddess of the earth
Epimeliades (Επιμελίδες), nymphs of highland pastures and protectors of sheep flocks
Hamadryades (Αμαδρυάδες), oak tree dryades
Hecaterus (Ηεκατερος), minor god of the hekateris — a rustic dance of quickly moving hands — and perhaps of the skill of hands in general
Hephaestus (Ήφαιστος), god of metalworking
Hermes (Ερμής), god of herds and flocks, of roads and boundary stones
The Horae (Ώρες), The Hours
The goddesses of natural order
Eunomia (Ευνομία), spirit of good order, and springtime goddess of green pastures
Dike (Δίκη), spirit of justice, may have represented springtime growth
Eirene (Ειρήνη), spirit of peace and goddess of the springtime
The goddesses of springtime growth
Thallo (Θαλλώ), goddess of spring buds and shoots, identified with Eirene
Auxo (Αυξώ), goddess of spring growth
Karpo (Καρπώ), goddess of the fruits of the earth
The goddesses of welfare
Pherousa (Φέρουσα) "the bringer"
Euporie (Ευπορίη) "abundance"
Orthosie (Ορθοσίη) "prosperity"
The goddesses of the natural portions of time and the times of day
Auge (Αυγή), first light of the morning
Anatole (Ανατολή) or Anatolia (Ανατολία), sunrise
Mousika or Musica (Μουσική), the morning hour of music and study
Gymnastika, Gymnastica (Γυμναστίκή) or Gymnasia (Γυμνασία), the morning hour of gymnastics/exercise
Nymphe (Νυμφή), the morning hour of ablutions (bathing, washing)
Mesembria (Μεσημβρία), noon
Sponde (Σπονδή), libations poured after lunch
Elete, prayer, the first of the afternoon work hours
Akte, Acte (Ακτή) or Cypris (Κυπρίς), eating and pleasure, the second of the afternoon work hours
Hesperis (Έσπερίς), evening
Dysis (Δύσις), sunset
Arktos (Άρκτος), night sky, constellation
The goddesses of seasons of the year
Eiar (Είαρ), spring
Theros (Θέρος), summer
Pthinoporon (Φθινόπωρον), autumn
Cheimon (Χειμών), winter
Korybantes (Κορύβαντες), the crested dancers who worshipped Cybele
Damneus (Δαμνεύς) "the one who tames(?)"
Idaios (Ιδαίος) "of Mount Ida"
Kyrbas (Κύρβας), whose name is probably a variant of Korybas, singular for "Korybantes"
Okythoos (Ωκύθοος) "the one running swiftly"
Prymneus (Πρυμνεύς) "of lower areas(?)"
Pyrrhichos (Πυρῥιχος), god of the rustic dance
Maenades (μαινάδες), crazed nymphs in the retinue of Dionysus
Methe (Μέθη), nymph of drunkenness
Meliae (Μελίαι), nymphs of honey and the ash tree
Naiades (Ναιάδες), fresh water nymphs
Daphne (Δάφνη)
Metope (Μετώπη)
Minthe
The Nymphai Hyperboreioi (Νύμφαι Υπερβόρειοι), who presided over aspects of archery
Hekaerge (Εκαέργη), represented distancing
Loxo (Λοξώ), represented trajectory
Oupis (Ουπις), represented aim
Oreades (Ὀρεάδες), mountain nymphs
Adrasteia (Αδράστεια), a nursemaid of the infant Zeus
Echo (Ηχώ), a nymph cursed never to speak except to repeat the words of others
Oceanides (Ωκεανίδες), fresh water nymphs
Beroe (Βερόη), a nymph of Beirut, the daughter of Aphrodite and Adonis, who was wooed by both Dionysus and Poseidon
Calypso (Καλυψώ)
Clytie (Κλυτίη)
Eidyia (Ειδυια), the youngest of the Oceanides
for the complete list, see List of Oceanids
The Ourea (Ούρος), primeval gods of mountains
The Palici (Παλικοί), a pair of rustic gods who presided over the geysers and thermal springs in Sicily
Pan (Πάν), god of shepherds, pastures, and fertility
Potamoi, river gods
Achelous (Αχέλους)
Acis (Άκις)
Acheron (Αχέρων)
Alpheus (Αλφειός)
Asopus (Ασωπός)
Cladeus (Κλάδεος)
Eurotas (Ευρώτας)
Cocytus (Kωκυτός)
Lethe (λήθη)
Peneus (Πηνειός)
Phlegethon (Φλεγέθων))
Styx (Στύξ)
Scamander (Σκάμανδρος)
Priapus (Πρίαπος), god of garden fertility
Rhea (Ῥέα), the great mother and queen of the mountain wilds
Satyrs (Σάτυροι), rustic fertility spirits
Krotos (Κρότος), a great hunter and musician who kept the company of the Muses on Mount Helicon
Silenus (Σειληνός), an old rustic god of the dance of the wine-press
Telete (Τελέτη), goddess of initiation into the Bacchic orgies
Zagreus (Ζαγρεύς), in the Orphic mysteries, the first incarnation of Dionysus
[edit]Agricultural deities
Adonis (Άδωνις), a life-death-rebirth deity
Aphaea (Αφαία), minor goddess of agriculture and fertility
Carme (Κάρμη), a Cretan spirit who presided over the harvest festival
Carmanor (Καρμάνωρ), a Cretan harvest god
Chrysothemis (Χρυσόθεμις), goddess of the "Golden Custom", a harvest festival, daughter of Demeter and Carmanor
Cyamites (Κυαμίτης), demi-god of the bean
Demeter (Δημήτηρ), goddess of fertility, agriculture, grain and harvest
Despoina, daughter of Poseidon and Demeter, goddess of mysteries in Arcadia
Dionysus (Διόνυσος), god of viticulture and wine
Eunostus (Εύνοστος), goddess of the flour mill
Hestia (Ἑστία), maiden goddess of the hearth who presided over the baking of bread, mankind's stable food
Persephone (Περσεφόνη), queen of the underworld, wife of Hades and goddess of spring growth
Philomelus (Φιλόμελος), agricultural demi-god inventor of the wagon and the plough
Plutus (Πλοῦτος), god of wealth, including agricultural wealth, son of Demeter
[edit]Deified mortals
Achilles (Ἀχιλλεύς), hero of the Trojan War
Aiakos (Αἰακός), a king of Aegina, appointed as a Judge of the Dead in the Underworld after his death
Aeolus (Aiolos) (Αἴολος), a king of Thessaly, made the immortal king of the winds by Zeus
Amphiaraus (Ἀμφιάραος), a hero of the war of the Seven Against Thebe who became an oracular spirit of the Underworld after his death
Ariadne (Αριάδνη), a Cretan princess who became the immortal wife of Dionysus
Aristaeus (Ἀρισταῖος), a Thessalian hero, his inventions saw him immortalised as the god of bee-keeping, cheese-making, herding, olive-growing and hunting
Asclepius (Ἀσκληπιός), a Thessalian physician who was struck down by Zeus, to be later recovered by his father Apollo
Attis (Ἄττις), a consort of Cybele, granted immortality as one of her attendants
Bolina (Βολίνα), a mortal woman transformed into an immortal nymph by Apollo
The Dioscuri (Διόσκουροι), divine twins
Castor (Κάστωρ)
Polydeuces (Πολυδεύκης)
Endymion (Ἐνδυμίων), lover of Selene, granted eternal sleep so as never to age or die
Ganymede (Γανυμήδης), a handsome Trojan prince, abducted by Zeus and made cup-bearer of the gods
Glaucus (Γλαῦκος), the fisherman's sea god, made immortal after eating a magical herb
Hemithea (Ἡμιθέα) and Parthenos (Παρθένος), princesses of the Island of Naxos who leapt into the sea to escape their father's wrath; Apollo transformed them into demi-goddesses
Heracles (Ἡρακλῆς), ascended hero
Lampsace (Λαμψάκη), a semi-historical Bebrycian princess honored as goddess for her assistance to the Greeks
Minos (Μίνως), a king of Crete, appointed as a Judge of the Dead in the Underworld after his death
Ino (Ἰνώ), a Theban princess who became the sea goddess Leucothea
The Leucippides (Λευκιππίδες), wives of the Dioscuri
Phoebe (Φοίβη), wife of Pollux
Hilaeira (Ἱλάειρα), wife of Castor
Orithyia (Ὠρείθυια), an Athenian princess abducted by Boreas and made the goddess of cold, gusty mountain winds
Palaemon (Παλαίμων), a Theban prince, made into a sea god along with his mother, Ino
Phylonoe (Φυλονόη), daughter of Tyndareus and Leda, made immortal by Artemis
Psyche (Ψυχή), goddess of the soul
[edit]Health deities
Aceso (Ἀκεσώ), goddess of the healing of wounds and the curing of illnesses
Aegle (Αἴγλη), goddess of radiant good health
Asclepius (Ασκληπιός), god of healing
Epione (Ἠπιόνη), goddess of the soothing of pain
Hygieia (Υγεία), goddess of cleanliness and good health
Iaso (Ἰασώ), goddess of cures, remedies and modes of healing
Paeon (Παιάν, Παιήων, or Παιών), physician of the Olympian gods
Panacea (Πανάκεια), goddess of healing
Telesphorus (Τελεσφόρος), demi-god of convalescence, who "brought to fulfillment" recuperation from illness or injury
[edit]Other deities
Acratopotes (Ἀκρατοπότης), god of unmixed wine and incontinence
Adrastea (Αδράστεια), a daughter of Ares and Aphrodite, or an epithet of Nemesis
Agdistis (Ἄγδιστις), Phrygian hermaphroditic deity
Alexiares and Anicetus (Αλεξιαρης and Ανικητος), twin sons of Heracles who presided over the defence of fortified towns and citadels
Aphroditus (Ἀφρόδιτος), Cyprian hermaphroditic Aphrodite
Astraea (Αστραία), virgin goddess of justice
Auxesia (Αυξησία) and Damia (Δαμία), two local fertility goddesses
Charites (Χάριτες), goddesses of charm, beauty, nature, human creativity and fertility
Aglaea (Αγλαΐα), goddess of beauty, adornment, splendor and glory
Euphrosyne (Εὐφροσύνη), goddess of good cheer, joy, mirth and merriment
Thalia (Θάλεια), goddess of festive celebrations and rich and luxurious banquets
Hegemone (Ηγεμόνη) "mastery"
Antheia (Άνθεια), goddess of flowers and flowery wreaths
Pasithea (Πασιθέα), goddess of rest and relaxation
Cleta (Κλήτα) "the glorious"
Phaenna (Φαέννα) "the shining"
Eudaimonia (Ευδαιμονία) "happiness"
Euthymia (Ευθυμία) "good mood"
Calleis (Καλλείς) "beauty"
Paidia (Παιδία) "play, amusement"
Pandaisia (Πανδαισία) "banquet for everyone"
Pannychis (Παννυχίς) "all-night (festivity)"
Ceraon (Κεραων), demi-god of the meal, specifically the mixing of wine
Chrysus (Χρύσος), spirit of gold
Circe (Κίρκη), goddess-witch of Aeaea
Daemones Ceramici (Δαίμονες Κεραμικοί), five malevolent spirits who plagued the craftsman potter
Syntribos (Σύντριβος), the shatterer
Smaragos (Σμάραγος), the smasher
Asbetos (Ασβετος), the charrer
Sabaktes (Σαβάκτης), the destroyer
Omodamos (Ομόδαμος), crudebake
Deipneus (Δειπνεύς), demi-god of the preparation of meals, specifically the making of bread
Eiresione (Ειρεσιώνη), personification of the olive branch
Eileithyia (Εἰλείθυια), goddess of childbirth
Enyalius (Ενυάλιος), minor god of war
Enyo (Ἐνυώ), goddess of destructive war
Harpocrates (Ηαρποκρατης), god of silence
Hermaphroditus (Ἑρμάφρόδιτός), god of hermaphrodites and effeminate men
Hymenaios (Ὑμέναιος), god of marriage and marriage feasts
Ichnaea (Ιχναία), goddess of tracking
Iynx (Ιύνξ), goddess of the love charm
Matton (Μάττων), demi-god of the meal, specifically the kneading of dough
Muses (Μούσαι), goddesses of music, song and dance, and the source of inspiration to poets
Titan Muses, daughters of Gaia and Uranus
Aoide (Ἀοιδή), muse of song
Arche (Αρχή), muse of origins
Melete (Μελέτη), muse of meditation and practice
Mneme (Μνήμη), muse of memory
Thelxinoe (Θελξινόη), muse "charmer of minds"
Olympian Muses, daughters of Zeus and Mnemosyne
Calliope (Καλλιόπη), muse of epic poetry
Clio (Κλειώ), muse of history
Erato (Ερατώ), muse of erotic poetry
Euterpe (Ευτέρπη), muse of lyric poetry
Melpomene (Μελπομένη), muse of tragedy
Polyhymnia (Πολυμνία) or (Πολύμνια), muse of sacred poetry
Terpsichore (Τερψιχόρη), muse of dance and choral poetry
Thalia (Θάλεια), muse of comedy and bucolic poetry
Urania (Ουρανία), muse of astronomy
Younger Muses, daughters of Apollo
Cephisso (Κεφισσώ)
Apollonis (Απολλωνίς)
Borysthenis (Βορυσθενίς)
Hypate (Υπάτη) "the upper (chord of the lyre)"
Mese (Μέση) "the middle (chord of the lyre)"
Nete (Νήτη) "the lower (chord of the lyre)"
Polymatheia (Πολυμάθεια), muse of knowledge
Palaestra (Παλαίστρα), goddess of wrestling
Rhapso (Ραψώ), minor goddess or nymph whose name apparently refers to sewing
[edit]Mortals

[edit]Heroes
Abderus, aided Heracles during his eighth labour and was killed by the Mares of Diomedes
Achilles (Αχιλλεύς or Αχιλλέας), hero of the Trojan War and a central character in Homer's Iliad
Aeneas (Αινείας), a hero of the Trojan War and progenitor of the Roman people
Ajax the Great (Αίας ο Μέγας), a hero of the Trojan War and king of Salamis
Ajax the Lesser (Αίας ο Μικρός), a hero of the Trojan War and leader of the Locrian army
Amphitryon (Αμφιτρύων), Theban general who rescued Thebes from the Teumessian Fox; his wife was Alcmene, mother of Heracles
Bellerophon, hero who slew the Chimera
Castor, the mortal Dioscuri twin; after Castor's death, his immortal brother Pollux shared his divinity with him in order that they might remain together
Chrysippus, a divine hero of Elis
Daedalus, creator of the labyrinth and great inventor, until King Minos trapped him in his own creation.
Diomedes, a king of Argos and hero of the Trojan War
Eleusis, eponymous hero of the town of Eleusis
Eunostus, a Boeotian hero
Ganymede, Trojan hero and lover of Zeus, who was given immortality and appointed cup-bearer to the gods
Hector, hero of the Trojan War and champion of the Trojan people
Iolaus, nephew of Heracles who aided his uncle in one of his Labors
Jason, leader of the Argonauts
Meleager, a hero who sailed with the Argonauts and killed the Calydonian Boar
Odysseus, a hero and king of Ithaca whose adventures are the subject of Homer's Odyssey; he also played a key role during the Trojan War
Orpheus, a legendary musician and poet who attempted to retrieve his dead wife from the Underworld
Perseus (Περσεύς), son of Zeus and the founder-king of Mycenae and slayer of the Gorgon Medusa
Theseus, son of Poseidon and a king of Athens and slayer of the Minotaur
[edit]Notable women
Alcestis (Άλκηστις), daughter of Pelias and wife of Admetus, who was known for her devotion to her husband
Amymone, the one daughter of Danaus who refused to murder her husband, thus escaping her sisters' punishment
Andromache (Ανδρομάχη), wife of Hector
Andromeda (Ανδρομέδα), wife of Perseus, who was placed among the constellations after her death
Antigone (Αντιγόνη), daughter of Oedipus and Jocasta
Arachne (Αράχνη), a skilled weaver, transformed by Athena into a spider for her blasphemy
Ariadne (Αριάδνη), daughter of Minos, king of Crete, who aided Theseus in overcoming the Minotaur and became the wife of Dionysus
Atalanta (Αταλάντη), fleet-footed heroine who participated in the Calydonian Boar hunt
Briseis, a princess of Lyrnessus, taken by Achilles as a war prize
Caeneus, formerly Caenis, a woman who was transformed into a man and became a mighty warrior
Cassandra, a princess of Troy cursed to see the future but never to be believed
Clytemnestra, sister of Helen and unfaithful wife of Agamemnon
Danaë, the mother of Perseus by Zeus
Deianeira, the third wife and unwitting killer of Heracles
Electra, daughter of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra, she aided her brother Orestes in plotting revenge against their mother for the murder of their father
Europa, a Phoenician woman, abducted by Zeus
Hecuba (Ἑκάβη), wife of Priam, king of Troy, and mother of nineteen of his children
Helen, daughter of Zeus and Leda, whose abduction brought about the Trojan War
Hermione (Ἑρμιόνη), daughter of Menelaus and Helen; wife of Neoptolemus, and later Orestes
Iphigenia, daughter of Agamemnon and Clytemnestra; Agamemnon sacrificed her to Artemis in order to appease the goddess
Ismene, sister of Antigone
Jocasta, mother and wife of Oedipus
Medea, a sorceress and wife of Jason, who killed her own children to punish Jason for his infidelity
Medusa, a mortal woman transformed into a hideous gorgon by Athena
Niobe, a daughter of Tantalus who declared herself to be superior to Leto, causing Artemis and Apollo to kill her fourteen children
Pandora, the first woman
Penelope, loyal wife of Odysseus
Phaedra, daughter of Minos and wife of Theseus
Polyxena, the youngest daughter of Priam, sacrificed to the ghost of Achilles
Semele, mortal mother of Dionysus
[edit]Kings
Abas, a king of Argos
Acastus, a king of Iolcus who sailed with the Argonauts and participated in the Calydonian Boar hunt
Acrisius, a king of Argos
Actaeus, first king of Attica
Admetus (Άδμητος), a king of Pherae who sailed with the Argonauts and participated in the Calydonian Boar hunt
Adrastus (Άδραστος), a king of Argos and one of the Seven Against Thebes
Aeacus (Αιακός), a king of the island of Aegina in the Saronic Gulf; after he died, he became one of the three judges of the dead in the Underworld
Aeëtes, a king of Colchis and father of Medea
Aegeus (Αιγεύς), a king of Athens and father of Theseus
Aegimius, a king of Thessaly and progenitor of the Dorians
Aegisthus (Αίγισθος), lover of Clytemnestra, with whom he plotted to murder Agamemnon and seized the kingship of Mycenae
Aegyptus (Αίγυπτος), a king of Egypt
Aeson, father of Jason and rightful king of Iolcus, whose throne was usurped by his half-brother Pelias
Aëthlius, first king of Elis
Aetolus (Αιτωλός), a king of Elis
Agamemnon (Ἀγαμέμνων), a king of Mycenae and commander of the Greek armies during the Trojan War
Agasthenes, a king of Elis
Agenor (Αγήνωρ), a king of Phoenicia
Alcinous (Αλκίνους or Ἀλκίνοος), a king of Phaeacia
Alcmaeon, a king of Argos and one of the Epigoni
Aleus, a king of Tegea
Amphiaraus (Ἀμφιάραος), a seer and king of Argos who participated in the Calydonian Boar hunt and the war of the Seven Against Thebes
Amphictyon (Ἀμφικτύων), a king of Athens
Amphion and Zethus, twin sons of Zeus and kings of Thebes, who constructed the city's walls
Amycus, son of Poseidon and king of the Bebryces
Anaxagoras (Ἀναξαγόρας), a king of Argos
Anchises (Αγχίσης), a king of Dardania and father of Aeneas
Arcesius, a king of Ithaca and father of Laertes
Argeus, a king of Argos
Argus, a son of Zeus and king of Argos after Phoroneus
Assaracus, a king of Dardania
Asterion, a king of Crete
Athamas (Ἀθάμας), a king of Orchomenus
Atreus (Ἀτρεύς), a king of Mycenae and father of Agamemnon and Menelaus
Augeas (Αυγείας), a king of Elis
Autesion, a king of Thebes
Bias, a king of Argos
Busiris, a king of Egypt
Cadmus, founder-king of Thebes
Car, a king of Megara
Catreus, a king of Crete, prophesied to die at the hands of his own son
Cecrops, an autochthonous king of Athens
Ceisus, a king of Argos
Celeus, a king of Eleusis
Cephalus, a king of Phocis who accidentally killed his own wife
Cepheus, a king of Ethiopia
Cepheus, a king of Tegea and an Argonaut
Charnabon, a king of the Getae
Cinyras, a king of Cyprus and father of Adonis
Codrus, a king of Athens
Corinthus, founder-king of Corinth
Cranaus, a king of Athens
Creon, a king of Thebes, brother of Laius and uncle of Oedipus
Creon, a king of Corinth who was hospitable towards Jason and Medea
Cres, an early Cretan king
Cresphontes, a king of Messene and descendent of Heracles
Cretheus, founder-king of Iolcus
Criasus, a king of Argos
Cylarabes, a king of Argos
Cynortas, a king of Sparta
Cyzicus, king of the Dolionians, mistakenly killed by the Argonauts
Danaus, a king of Egypt and father of the Danaides
Dardanus, founder-king of Dardania, and son of Zeus and Electra
Deiphontes, a king of Argos
Demophon of Athens, a king of Athens
Diomedes, a king of Argos and hero of the Trojan War
Echemus, a king of Arcadia
Echetus, a king of Epirus
Eetion, a king of Cilician Thebe and father of Andromache
Electryon, a king of Tiryns and Mycenae; son of Perseus and Andromeda
Elephenor, a king of the Abantes of Euboea
Eleusis, eponym and king of Eleusis, Attica
Epaphus, a king of Egypt and founder of Memphis
Epopeus, a king of Sicyon
Erechtheus, a king of Athens
Erginus, a king of Minyean Orchomenus in Boeotia
Erichthonius, a king of Athens, born of Hephaestus' attempt to rape Athena
Eteocles, a king of Thebes and son of Oedipus; he and his brother Polynices killed each other
Eteocles, son of Andreus, a king of Orchomenus
Eurotas, a king of Sparta
Eurystheus, a king of Tiryns
Euxantius, a king of Ceos, son of Minos and Dexithea
Gelanor, a king of Argos
Haemus, a king of Thrace
Helenus, seer and twin brother of Cassandra, who later became king of Epirus
Hippothoön, a king of Eleusis
Hyrieus, a king of Boeotia
Ilus, founder-king of Troy
Ixion, a king of the Lapiths who attempted to rape Hera and was bound to a flaming wheel in Tartarus
Laërtes, father of Odysseus and king of the Cephallenians; he sailed with the Argonauts and participated in the Calydonian Boar hunt
Laomedon, a king of Troy and father of Priam
Lycaon of Arcadia, a deceitful Arcadian king who was transformed by Zeus into a wolf
Lycurgus of Arcadia, a king of Arcadia
Lycurgus of Nemea, a king of Nemea
Makedon, a king of Macedon
Megareus of Onchestus, a king of Onchestus in Boeotia
Megareus of Thebes, a king of Thebes
Melampus, a legendary soothsayer and healer, and king of Argos
Melanthus, a king of Messenia
Memnon, a king of Ethiopia who fought on the side of Troy during the Trojan War
Menelaus, a king of Sparta and the husband of Helen
Menestheus, a king of Athens who fought on the side of the Greeks during the Trojan War
Midas, a king of Phrygia granted the power to turn anything to gold with a touch
Minos, a king of Crete; after his death, became one of the judges of the dead in the Underworld
Myles, a king of Laconia
Nestor, a king of Pylos who sailed with the Argonauts, participated in the Calydonian Boar hunt and fought with the Greek armies in the Trojan War
Nycteus, a king of Thebes
Odysseus, a hero and king of Ithaca whose adventures are the subject of Homer's Odyssey; he also played a key role during the Trojan War
Oebalus, a king of Sparta
Oedipus, a king of Thebes fated to kill his father and marry his mother
Oeneus, a king of Calydon
Oenomaus, a king of Pisa
Oenopion, a king of Chios
Ogygus, a king of Thebes
Oicles, a king of Argos
Oileus, a king of Locris
Orestes, a king of Argos and a son of Clytemnestra and Agamemnon; he killed his mother in revenge for her murder of his father
Oxyntes, a king of Athens
Pandion I, a king of Athens
Pandion II, a king of Athens
Peleus, king of the Myrmidons and father of Achilles; he sailed the with Argonauts and participated in the Calydonian Boar hunt
Pelias, a king of Iolcus and usurper of Aeson's rightful throne
Pelops, a king of Pisa and founder of the House of Atreus
Pentheus, a king of Thebes who banned the worship of Dionysus and was torn apart by Maenads
Perseus (Περσεύς), founder-king of Mycenae and slayer of the Gorgon Medusa
Phineus, a king of Thrace
Phlegyas, a king of the Lapiths
Phoenix, son of Agenor, founder-king of Phoenicia
Phoroneus, a king of Argos
Phyleus, a king of Elis
Pirithoös, king of the Lapiths and husband of Hippodamia, at whose wedding the Battle of Lapiths and Centaurs occurred
Pittheus, a king of Troezen and grandfather of Theseus
Polybus of Corinth, a king of Corinth
Polybus of Sicyon, a king of Sicyon and son of Hermes
Polybus of Thebes, a king of Thebes
Polynices, a king of Thebes and son of Oedipus; he and his brother Eteocles killed each other
Priam, king of Troy during the Trojan War
Proetus, a king of Argos and Tiryns
Pylades, a king of Phocis and friend of Orestes
Rhadamanthys, a king of Crete; after his death, he became a judge of the dead in the Underworld
Rhesus, a king of Thrace who sided with Troy in the Trojan War
Sarpedon, a king of Lycia and son of Zeus who fought on the side of the Greeks during the Trojan War
Sisyphus, a king of Thessaly who attempted to cheat death and was sentenced to an eternity of rolling a boulder up a hill, only to watch it roll back down
Sithon, a king of Thrace
Talaus, a king of Argos who sailed with the Argonauts
Tegyrios, a king of Thrace
Telamon, a king of Salamis and father of Ajax; he sailed with the Argonauts and participated in the Calydonian Boar hunt
Telephus, a king of Mysia and son of Heracles
Temenus, a king of Argos and descendent of Heracles
Teucer, founder-king of Salamis who fought alongside the Greeks in the Trojan War
Teutamides, a king of Larissa
Teuthras, a king of Mysia
Thersander, a king of Thebes and one of the Epigoni
Theseus, a king of Athens and slayer of the Minotaur
Thyestes, a king of Mycenae and brother of Atreus
Tisamenus, a king of Argos, Mycenae and Sparta
Tyndareus, a king of Sparta
[edit]Seers
Amphilochus (Αμφίλοχος), a seer and brother of Alcmaeon who died in the war of the Seven Against Thebes
Anius, son of Apollo who prophesied that the Trojan War would be won in its tenth year
Branchus, a seer and son of Apollo
Calchas, an Argive seer who aided the Greeks during the Trojan War
Carnus, an Acarnanian seer and lover of Apollo
Carya, a seer and lover of Dionysus
Cassandra, a princess of Troy cursed to see the future but never to be believed
Ennomus, a Mysian seer, killed by Achilles during the Trojan War
Halitherses, an Ithacan seer who warned Penelope's suitors of Odysseus' return
Helenus, seer and twin brother of Cassandra, who later became king of Epirus
Iamus, a son of Apollo possessing the gift of prophecy, he founded the Iamidai
Idmon, a seer who sailed with the Argonauts
Manto, seer and daughter of Tiresias
Melampus, a legendary soothsayer and healer, and king of Argos
Mopsus, the name of two legendary seers
Polyeidos, a Corinthian seer who saved the life of Glaucus
Telemus, a seer who foresaw that the Cyclops Polyphemus would be blinded by Odysseus
Theoclymenus, an Argive seer
Tiresias, blind prophet of Thebes
[edit]Amazons
Aegea, a queen of the Amazons
Aella (Ἄελλα), an Amazon who was killed by Heracles
Alcibie(Ἀλκιβίη), an Amazonian warrior, killed by Diomedes at Troy
Antandre (Ἀντάνδρη), an Amazonian warrior, killed by Achilles at Troy
Antiope (Ἀντιόπη), a daughter of Ares and sister of Hippolyta
Areto (Ἀρετώ), an Amazon
Asteria (Ἀστερία), an Amazon who was killed by Heracles
Bremusa (Βρέμουσα), an Amazonian warrior, killed by Idomeneus at Troy
Celaeno (Κελαινώ), an Amazonian warrior, killed by Heracles
Eurypyle (Εὐρυπύλη), an Amazon leader who invaded Ninus and Babylonia
Hippolyta (Ἱππολύτη), a daughter of Ares and queen of the Amazons
Hippothoe (Ἱπποθόη), an Amazonian warrior, killed by Achilles at Troy
Iphito (Ἰφιτώ), an Amazon who served under Hippolyta
Lampedo (Λαμπεδώ), an Amazon queen who ruled with her sister Marpesia
Marpesia (Μαρπεσία), an Amazon queen who ruled with her sister Lampedo
Melanippe (Μελανίππη), a daughter of Ares and sister of Hippolyta and Antiope
Molpadia (Μολπαδία), an Amazon who killed Antiope
Myrina (Μύρινα), a queen of the Amazons
Orithyia (Ὠρείθυια), an Amazon queen
Otrera (Ὀτρήρα), a queen of the Amazons, consort of Ares and mother of Hippolyta
Pantariste (Πανταρίστη), an Amazon who fought with Hippolyta against Heracles
Penthesilea (Πενθεσίλεια), a queen of the Amazons who fought in the Trojan War on the side of Troy
[edit]Inmates of Tartarus
The Daiaides, forty-nine daughters of Danaus who murdered their husbands and were condemned to an eternity of carrying water in leaky jugs
Ixion, a king of the Lapiths who attempted to rape Hera and was bound to a flaming wheel in Tartarus
Sisyphus, a king of Thessaly who attempted to cheat death and was sentenced to an eternity of rolling a boulder up a hill, only to watch it roll back down
Tantalus, a king of Anatolia who butchered his son Pelops and served him as a meal to the gods; he was punished with the torment of starvation, food and drink eternally dangling just out of reach
[edit]Minor figures
Abas, the name of several mythological figures
Abia, nursemaid of Glenus, a son of Heracles
Abrota, wife of Nisos, king of Megara
Acacallis, daughter of Minos, king of Crete
Acallaris, daughter of Eumedes
Acamas, son of Antenor (Ἀκάμας), a son of Antenor who fought in the Trojan war on the side of Troy
Acamas, son of Theseus (Ἀκάμας), a son of Theseus who fought with the Greeks during the Trojan War
Acarnan (Ἀκαρνάν), a son of Alcmaeon and Callirrhoe
Achaeus (Ἀχαιός), progenitor of the Achaeans
Acoetes, a priest of Dionysus
Acraepheus, a son of Apollo
Actaeon, a hunter transformed into a stag by Artemis and devoured by his own hounds
Actor (Άκτωρ), the name of several mythological figures
Aegiale (Αἰγιαλεία), unfaithful wife of Diomedes
Aegialeus, the name of several mythological figures
Aepytus, the name of several mythological figures
Aëdon, daughter of Pandareus, changed into a nightingale
Aërope, the name of several mythological figures
Aesacus, a son of Priam who was transformed into a bird
Aethalides, herald of the Argonauts
Aethilla, sister of Priam, king of Troy
Aethra (Αἴθρα), mother of Theseus
Aetolus, a son of Endymion, eponym of Aetolia
Agamede, the name of several mythological figures
Agamedes, a famed architect
Agapenor, leader of the Arcadians during the Trojan War
Agastrophus, a Paeonian ally of the Trojans
Agave, mother of Cadmus and worshipper of Dionysus
Agelaus (Ageláos), the name of several mythological figures
Aglaea (Αγλαΐα), the name of several mythological figures
Aglaulus, the name of several mythological figures
Agrius, the name of several mythological figures
Agron, a son of Eumelus who was transformed into a plover for disrespecting Hermes, Athena and Artemis
Alcaeus (Ἀλκαίος), the name of several mythological figures
Alcathous, the name of several mythological figures
Alcidice, wife of Salmoneus, king of Elis
Alcimache, the name of several mythological figures
Alcimede, wife of Aeson and mother of Jason
Alcimedon, the name of several mythological figures
Alcimus, the name of several mythological figures
Alcinoe, the name of several mythological figures
Alcmene (Ἀλκμήνη), mother of Heracles
Alcyone (Ἀλκυών or Ἀλκυόνη), daughter of Aeolus and wife of Ceyx
Almus, one of the sons of Sisyphus
Aloeus, the name of several mythological figures
Alope, a woman seduced by Poseidon in the form of a kingfisher
Alphesiboea, the name of several mythological figures
Althaea (Ἀλθαία), mother of Meleager
Althaemenes, son of Catreus, king of Crete; it was prophesied he would be killed by his own son
Amarynceus, a chief of the Eleans
Amethystos, a maiden that was changed into amethyst
Amphidamas (Ἀμφιδάμας), the name of several mythological figures
Amphimachus (Ἀμφίμαχος), the name of several mythological figures
Amphinome, the name of several mythological figures
Amphinomus (Ἀμφίνομος), a son of Nisos and one of Penelope's suitors during the Odyssey
Amphion, the name of several mythological figures
Amphithea (Ἀμφιθέα), the name of several mythological figures
Amyclas (Ἀμύκλας), the name of several mythological figures
Amyntor (Ἀμύντωρ), the name of several mythological figures
Amythaon, a son of Cretheus, father of Melampus and Bias
Anaxarete, a Cypriot maiden turned to stone by Aphrodite for refusing her suitor's advances
Anaxibia, the name of several mythological figures
Anaxo, mother of Alcmene
Ancaeus, the name of two separate Argonauts, each of whom was killed by a boar
Anchialus (Ἀγχίαλος), the name of several mythological figures
Andraemon, the name of several mythological figures
Andreus, son of the river-god Peneus
Androgeus, a son of Minos, king of Crete
Antenor (Ἀντήνωρ), a counsellor of Priam
Anticlus, one of the Greek warriors who hid inside the Trojan Horse
Anticlea, mother of Odysseus
Antilochus (Ἀντίλοχος), a son of Nestor who participated in the Trojan War
Antimachus (Αντίμαχος), the name of several mythological figures
Antinoe, the name of several mythological figures
Antinous, one of the most prominent and disrespectful suitors of Penelope during the Odyssey
Antion, father of Ixion
Antiphates, the name of several mythological figures
Antiphus, the name of several mythological figures
Apemosyne, a daughter of Catreus who was raped by Hermes
Aphareus, founder of the city Arene in Messenia
Apheidas, the name of several mythological figures
Apis, the name of several mythological figures
Apsyrtus, a son of Aeëtes, murdered by his sister Medea
Arcas (Αρκάς), son of Zeus and Callisto
Arceophon, a Phoenician man who committed suicide after being spurned by his beloved
Arcesilaus, one of the Greek leaders in the Trojan War
Areithous, the name of several mythological figures
Aretaon, the name of several mythological figures
Arete, wife of Alcinous
Arganthone, famed huntress and lover of Rhesus
Arge, the name of several mythological figures
Argea, daughter of Adrastus and wife of Polynices
Argia, the name of several mythological characters
Argynnus, beloved of Agamemnon
Aristodemus (Ἀριστόδημος), a descendent of Heracles who helped lead the Dorian Invasion
Aristomachus (Ἀριστόμαχος), the name of several mythological figures
Asius, the name of two people who fought during the Trojan War
Aspalis, a maiden of Melite, Phthia associated with a local cult of Artemis
Asterodia, the name of several mythological figures
Asteropaios, a Paeonian ally of the Trojans
Asterope, the name of several mythological figures
Astyanassa, Helen of Troy's maid
Astyanax (Ἀστυάναξ), infant son of Hector and Andromache, killed during the Sack of Troy
Astydameia (Ἀστυδάμεια), the name of several mythological figures
Astynome, the name of several mythological figures
Astyoche, the name of several mythological figures
Astypalaea (Ἀστυπάλαια), a lover of Poseidon
Atrax, founder of Atracia in Thessaly
Atymnius, the name of several mythological figures
Auge, mother of the hero Telephus
Autochthe, a daughter of Perseus and Andromeda who married Aegeus
Autolycus, a son of Hermes
Automedon (Αυτομέδων), Achilles' charioteer
Autonoë, daughter of Cadmus and mother of Actaeon
Autonous, man transformed by the gods into a Stone Curlew
Axylus, a participant in the Trojan War who fought on the side of Troy
Batea, wife of Dardanus and mother of Ilus
Baubo, an old woman who jested with Demeter while the goddess was mourning the loss of Persephone
Baucis, a virtuous old woman whose hospitality the gods rewarded
Bianna, a Cretan woman who migrated to Gaul and disappeared in a chasm of the earth
Bienor, the name of several mythological figures
Biston, a son of Ares and eponym of Bistonia in Thrace
Bormus, a Mariandynian youth abducted by nymphs
Borus, the name of several mythological figures
Botres, a son of Eumelus, transformed into a bee-eater
Budeia, a Boeotian princess who led an army against Thebes
Briseus, father of Briseis
Broteas, a son of Tantalus
Bucolion, illegitimate son of the Trojan king Laomedon and half-brother of Priam
Buphagus, a son of Iapetus
Bura, a daughter of Ion
Butes, the name of several mythological figures
Byblis, a woman who fell in love with her twin brother
Calesius, Axylus' charioteer
Caletor, the name of two men involved in the Trojan War
Callidice, queen of Thesprotia and wife of Odysseus
Callithyia, the first priestess of Hera
Calyce, the name of several mythological figures
Calydon, eponym of Calydon, Aetolia
Canace, a daughter of Aeolus and lover of Poseidon
Canethus, the name of several mythological figures
Canthus, the name of several mythological figures
Capaneus, an arrogant warrior who was struck down by Zeus
Capys, the name of several mythological figures
Carius, a son of Zeus believed to have learned music from nymphs
Carystus, son of Chiron
Cassiopeia, a vain Ethiopian queen, punished by Poseidon for her hubris
Caucon, the name of several mythological figures
Caunus, a son of Miletus who fled from his twin sister's incestuous advances
Cebriones, an illegitimate son of Priam
Celtine, a Celtic princess and lover of Heracles
Cerambus, a talented yet arrogant singer who was transformed into a beetle
Cerdo, wife of Phoroneus
Cestrinus, son of Helenus and Andromache
Ceyx, husband of Alcyone
Chaeresilaus, son of Iasius
Chalciope, the name of several mythological figures
Chalcodon, the name of several mythological figures
Charops, the name of several mythological figures
Chelone, changed into a tortoise by Hermes
Chione, daughter of Arcturus, a lover of Boreas
Chione, daughter of Callirrhoe, a woman transformed by Hermes into a snow cloud
Chione, daughter of Daedalion, mother of Philammon and Autolycus by Apollo and Hermes respectively
Chloris, the name of several mythological figures
Chromia, daughter of Itonus
Chrysanthis, a woman who told Demeter of the abduction of Persephone
Chryseis, a woman enslaved as a war prize by Agamemnon, who was later forced to return her
Chryses, a priest of Apollo and father of Chryseis
Chrysippe, the name of several mythological figures
Chrysothemis, the name of several mythological figures
Chthonia, the name of several mythological figures
Chthonius, the name of several mythological figures
Chthonophyle, a daughter of Sicyon and wife of Phlias
Cilix, founder of Cilicia
Cilla, the name of several mythological figures
Cleite, the name of several mythological figures
Cleitus, the name of several mythological figures
Cleoboea, the name of several mythological figures
Cleobule, the name of several mythological figures
Cleodaeus, a grandson of Heracles
Cleopatra, wife of Meleager
Clinis, a Babylonian man, transformed into a bird
Clonius, the name of several mythological figures
Clymenus, the name of several mythological figures
Clytie, the name of several mythological figures
Clytius, the name of several mythological figures
Clytodora, the name of several mythological figures
Clytus, the name of several mythological figures
Coeranus, the name of several mythological figures
Comaetho, the name of several mythological figures
Coön, a son of Antenor who fell against Agamemnon
Copreus, herald of Eurystheus
Coresus, the name of several mythological figures
Coronis, the name of several mythological figures
Cragaleus, a man transformed into stone by Apollo
Crete, the name of several mythological figures
Creusa, the name of several mythological figures
Crino, the name of several mythological figures
Crisus, founder of the town of Crissa
Ctesippus, the name of several mythological figures
Ctesylla, a maiden of Ioulis
Ctimene, younger sister of Odysseus
Cyanippus, the name of several mythological figures
Cychreus, son of Poseidon and Salamis
Cycnus, the name of several mythological figures, most of whom were transformed into swans
Cydippe, the name of several mythological figures
Cydon, the name of several mythological figures
Cynurus, a son of Perseus
Cyparissus, a boy beloved by Apollo and transformed into a cypress tree after his death
Daedalion, a man transformed by Apollo into a hawk
Daedalus, a skilled inventor and artisan
Dascylus, the name of several mythological figures
Deileon, the name of several mythological figures
Deimachus, the name of several mythological figures
Deioneus (Δηιονεύς) or Deion (Δηίων), the name of several mythological figures
Deiphobus, a son of Priam and Hecuba who fought in the Trojan War
Deipyle, wife of Tydeus and mother of Diomedes
Delphus, the name of several mythological figures
Demodice, the name of several mythological figures
Demonassa, the name of several mythological figures
Demonice, the name of several mythological figures
Demophon of Eleusis, a son of Celeus, king of Eleusis, whom Demeter attempted and failed to immortalise
Deucalion, survivor of the Deluge
Dexamenus, the name of several mythological figures
Dia, mother of Pirithoös
Dictys, the name of several mythological figures
Dimoetes, brother of Troezen
Diocles, the name of several mythological figures
Diomede, the name of several mythological figures
Dirce, wife of Lycus
Dius, the name of several mythological figures
Dolius, a slave of Penelope
Dolon, a fast runner who fought for Troy in the Trojan War
Dolops, the name of several mythological figures
Dorus, progenitor of the Dorians
Dotis, the name of several mythological figures
Dryas, the name of several mythological figures
Dryope, a woman transformed into a black poplar
Dymas, the name of several mythological figures
Echion, the name of several mythological figures
Eioneus, the name of several mythological figures
Electryone, a daughter of Helios and Rhode
Eleius, the name of several mythological figures
Eleuther, the name of several mythological figures
Elpenor, a crew member of Odysseus, who died in an accident; his shade approached Odysseus in the Underworld to beg him for a proper burial
Elymus, progenitor of the Elymians
Emathion, the name of several mythological figures
Enarete, wife of Aeolus
Endeïs, daughter of Chiron
Endymion, eternally sleeping lover of the moon goddess Selene
Enyeus, the name of several mythological characters
Epeius, the name of several mythological figures
Epicasta, the name of several mythological figures
Epidaurus, eponymous hero of the city Epidaurus
Epipole, a woman that went to Trojan War in disguise of a man
Epirus, daughter of Agave and Echion, after whom the region of Epirus was named
Epistrophus, the name of several mythological figures
Epochus, the name of several mythological characters
Ereuthalion, the name of several mythological figures
Eribotes, one of the Argonauts
Eriopis, the name of several mythological figures
Eriphyle, mother of Alcmaeon and wife of Amphiaraus
Erymanthus, the name of several mythological figures
Euippe, the name of several mythological figures
Euchenor, the name of several mythological figures
Eulimene, a Cretan girl who was put to death after having an affair with a man other than her betrothed
Eumaeus, Odysseus' loyal swineherd
Eumedes, the name of several mythological figures
Euphorion, the son of Achilles and Helen
Europs, the name of several mythological figures
Euryalus, the name of several mythological figures
Euryanassa, the name of several mythological figures
Eurybates, herald of the Greek armies and squire to Odysseus during the Trojan War
Eurycleia, the wet-nurse of Odysseus
Eurycyda, a lover of Poseidon
Eurydamas, the name of several mythological figures
Eurylochus, the second-in-command of Odysseus' ship during the return to Ithaca after the Trojan War
Eurymachus, the name of several mythological figures
Eurymedon, the name of several mythological figures
Eurymedousa, the name of several mythological figures
Eurypyle, the name of several mythological figures
Eurypylus, the name of several mythological figures
Euryte, daughter of Hippodamas
Eurythemis, the name of several mythological figures
Eurythemista, the name of several mythological figures
Eurytion, the name of several mythological figures
Eurytus, the name of several mythological figures
Evaechme, the name of several mythological figures
Evippus, the name of several mythological figures
Galanthis, servant and friend of Alcmene, who foiled Hera's plan to prevent Heracles' birth and was transformed into a weasel in punishment
Gerana, a Pygmy queen changed into a crane
Gorge, the name of several mythological figures
Gorgophone, daughter of Perseus and Andromeda
Guneus, the name of several mythological figures
Haemon, son of Creon and Eurydice
Halaesus, the name of several mythological figures
Halirrhothius, a son of Poseidon who was murdered by Ares
Harpalion, the name of several mythological figures
Hecamede, daughter of Arsinoös who was captured and given to Nestor as a servant
Heleus, a son of Perseus and Andromeda
Henioche, the name of several mythological figures
Herippe, a woman from Miletus, abducted by the Gauls
Hermippe, wife of Orchomeus and mother of Minyas by Poseidon
Hero and Leander, star-crossed lovers
Hippocoön, the name of several mythological figures
Hippodamas, the name of several mythological figures
Hippodamia, wife of Pelops
Hippolytus, a son of Theseus
Hippotes, the name of several mythological figures
Hippothoe, the name of several mythological figures
Hippothous, the name of several mythological figures
Hodites, the name of several mythological figures
Hodoedocus, son of Cynus, father of Oileus
Hyacinthus, a lover of Apollo changed into a flower
Hyacinthus of Lacedaemon, father of four daughters who were sacrificed to avert plague
Hylas, arms bearer to Heracles
Hyllus, son of Heracles and Deianira
Hyperenor, the name of several mythological figures
Hyperippe, the name of several mythological figures
Hypermnestra, the name of several mythological figures
Hyperphas, father of Euryganeia and Euryanassa
Hypsenor, the name of several mythological characters
Hyrmine, the wife of Phorbas
Hyrnetho, the wife of Deiphontes
Ialmenus, a son of Ares who sailed with the Argonauts
Iasus, the name of several mythological figures
Icarius, the name of several mythological figures
Icarus, the son of Daedalus, who fell to his death
Ilione, daughter of Priam and wife of Polymestor
Ilioneus, the name of several mythological figures
Imbrius, a son-in-law of Priam
Iodame, daughter of Itonus, turned to stone by Athena
Iole, daughter of Eurytus
Ion, son of Apollo and Creusa, wife of Xuthus
Iphianassa, the name of several mythological figures
Iphianeira, the name of several mythological figures
Iphicles, the name of several mythological figures
Iphidamas, the name of several mythological figures
Iphimedeia, a lover of Poseidon
Iphinoe, the name of several mythological figures
Iphitus, the name of several mythological figures
Iphthime, the name of several mythological figures
Itonus, son of Amphictyon and founder of a shrine to Athena
Lamedon, a son of Coronus of Sicyon
Lampus, the name of several mythological figures
Laodamas, the name of several mythological figures
Laodamia, the name of several mythological figures
Laodice, a daughter of Priam
Laonome, the name of several mythological figures
Laophoon, a Paeonian ally of the Trojans in the Trojan War
Laothoe, the name of several mythological figures
Lapithes, eponym of the Lapiths
Leitus, a leader of the Achaean forces during the Trojan War
Leos, name of two Attic heroes
Lepreus, a grandson of Poseidon and an enemy of Heracles
Leucippus, the name of several mythological figures
Leucon, the name of several mythological figures
Leuconoe, the name of several mythological figures
Leucophrye, daughter of Mandrolytus; she betrayed her city for the love of a man
Leucus, the name of several mythological figures
Lityerses, a son of Midas killed by Heracles, and eponym of a kind of reaping songs
Lophis, the young son of a Boeotian king
Lycaon of Troy, a son of Priam, killed by Achilles
Lycaste, the name of several mythological figures
Lycastus, the name of several mythological figures
Lycorus, the name of several mythological figures
Lycurgus of Thrace, a king of the Edoni in Thrace
Lysianassa, the name of several mythological figures
Lysimache, the name of several mythological figures
Lysippe, the name of several mythological figures
Machaon, a physician and son of Asclepius who fought on the side of the Greeks in the Trojan War
Maeon, the name of several mythological figures
Magnes, the name of several mythological figures
Mecisteus, son of Talaus who participated in the war of the Seven Against Thebes
Meda, the name of several mythological figures
Medôn, the name of several mythological figures
Megapenthes, the name of several mythological figures
Melanippus, the name of several mythological figures
Melantho, a disloyal servant of Penelope
Melas, the name of several mythological figures
Meliboea, the name of several mythological figures
Melicertes, son of Athamas and Ino who was transformed into the marine god Palaemon
Melite, an eponymous heroine of a deme in Attica
Memphis, eponym of Memphis, Egypt
Menippe, a daughter of Orion who was transformed into a comet
Messene, an ambitious Argive princess for whom Messenia was named
Metaneira, wife of Celeus, king of Eleusis
Metioche, a daughter of Orion who was transformed into a comet
Mestor, the name of several mythological figures
Mestra, daughter of Erysichthon who possessed the gift of shape-shifting
Miletus, a son of Apollo and founder of the city Miletus
Minyas, founder of Orchomenus in Boeotia
Munichus, the name of several mythological figures.
Myrina, the name of several mythological figures
Myrmidon, eponymous progenitor of the Myrmidons
Myrmidone, the name of several mythological figures
Myrrha, the mother of Adonis
Myrtilus, charioteer of Oenomaus
Myrto, the name of several mythological figures
Mysius, an Argive who offered hospitality to Demeter
Mytilene, the name of several mythological figures
Narcissus, a young man who fell in love with his own reflection
Naubolus, the name of several mythological figures
Nausicaa, a Phaeacian princess who aided Odysseus
Nausithous, the name of several mythological figures
Neoptolemus, a son of Achilles
Nicippe, the name of several mythological figures
Nireus, an Achaean leader during the Trojan War, renowned for his beauty
Nyctimene, a woman transformed by Athena into an owl
Nyctimus, a son of Lycaon who was killed and served up as a meal to Zeus
Oenoe, the name of several mythological characters
Oenone, the first wife of Paris, whom he abandoned in favour of Helen
Oenotrus, a son of Lycaon
Olenus, the name of several mythological figures
Omphale, a queen of Lydia to whom Heracles was required to become a slave for the period of a year
Oncius, a son of Apollo and eponymous hero of Oncium, Arcadia
Orion, a hunter whom Zeus placed among the stars as the constellation of Orion
Ornytion, a son of Sisyphus and ruler over Corinth
Ornytus, the name of several mythological figures
Orsilochus, the name of several mythological figures
Othryoneus, a suitor of Cassandra
Oxylus, the name of several mythological figures
Paeon (father of Agastrophus), a Paeonian, father of Agastrophus and Laophoon
Paeon (son of Antilochus), a Messenian noble
Paeon (son of Endymion), eponym of Paeonia
Paeon (son of Poseidon) by Helle, sister of Phrixus
Pallene, the name of several mythological figures
Pandaie, a daughter of Heracles in India
Pandareus, a friend of Tantalus who got involved into the latter's impious deeds
Pandarus, a Trojan archer who fought in the Trojan War
Pandora II, a daughter of Deucalion and Pyrrha
Panopeus, a son of Phocus
Panthous, an elder of Troy
Paris, a son of Priam whose abduction of Helen resulted in the Trojan War
Parthenopeus, one of the Seven Against Thebes
Patroclus, a comrade of Achilles who was killed by Hector during the Trojan War
Peirous, a Thracian ally of the Trojans
Peisenor, the name of several mythological figures
Peisidice, the name of several mythological figures
Peisistratus, the youngest son of Nestor
Pelopia, the name of several mythological figures
Peneleos, an Achaean soldier in the Trojan War
Penthilus, the name of several mythological figures
Periboea, the name of several mythological figures
Perigune, daughter of Sinis and lover of Theseus
Perileos, the name of several mythological figures
Periphas, the name of several mythological figures
Periphetes, the name of several mythological figures
Perimede, the name of several mythological figures
Perimedes, the name of several mythological figures
Phaenops, the name of several mythological figures
Phaëton, a son of Helios who lost control of his father's sun chariot and was struck down by Zeus to prevent disaster
Phalerus, a son of Alcon who sailed with the Argonauts
Pharis, a son of Hermes and founder of Pharae in Messene
Phemius, an Ithacan poet who performs in the house of Odysseus
Phialo, a lover of Heracles
Phocus, the name of several mythological figures
Philemon, a virtuous old man who was rewarded by Zeus
Philoctetes, a famed archer who participated in the Trojan War
Phlias, a son of Dionysus who sailed with the Argonauts
Phocus, a son of Aeacus, killed by his brothers Peleus and Telemon
Phoenix, one of the Myrmidons who participated in the Trojan War
Phorbas, the name of several mythological figures
Phorcys, a Phrygian ally of Priam in the Trojan War
Phrastor, the name of several mythological figures
Phrixus, a son of Athamas and Nephele, rescued by Chrysomallus, the ram with the golden fleece
Phrontis, a son of Phrixus who sailed with the Argonauts
Phylacus, the name of several mythological figures
Phylas, the name of several mythological figures
Phyleus, son of Augeas
Phyllis, wife of Demophon of Athens
Physadeia, the name of several mythological figures
Physcoa, member of the Sixteen Women and lover of Dionysus
Phytalus, an Attic hero encountered by Demeter
Pleuron, eponym of Pleuron, Aetolia
Plexippus, the name of several mythological characters
Podalirius, a healer and son of Asclepius who participated in the Trojan War
Polites, the name of several mythological figures
Polyboea, the name of several mythological figures
Polycaon, the name of several mythological figures
Polycaste, the name of several mythological figures
Polydorus, the name of several mythological figures
Polymele, the name of several mythological figures
Polypheides, the name of several mythological figures
Polystratus, a youth of Dyme, Achaea
Polyxenus, the name of several mythological figures
Polyxo, the name of several mythological figures
Praxithea, the name of several mythological figures
Proclia, daughter of Laomedon, sister of Priam and wife of Cycnus
Procrustes, a rogue smith and bandit from Attica who attacked people
Promedon, possibly a follower of Orpheus
Pronax, a brother of Adrastus
Prosymnus, a shepherd who aided Dionysus in rescuing Semele from Hades
Protesilaus, the first Greek soldier to die at Troy
Prothoenor, one of the Greek leaders in the Trojan War
Psophis, the name of several mythological figures
Pterelaos, the name of several mythological figures
Pygmalion, a sculptor who fell in love with his own creation
Pylaeus, a Pelasgian ally of the Trojans
Pylaemenes, an Enetian ally of the Trojans
Pyraechmes, a Paeonian ally of the Trojans
Pyramus, tragic lover of Thisbe, on whom Shakespeare's Romeo is based
Pyrrha, wife of Deucalion
Rarus, a possible father of Triptolemus
Rhadine and Leontichus, star-crossed lovers
Rhoeo, a lover of Apollo
Saon, the name of several mythological figures
Schedius, the name of several mythological figures
Scylaceus, a Lycian ally of the Trojans
Selemnus, a man who loved the sea nymph Argyra
Sidero, stepmother of Tyro
Socus, the name of several mythological figures
Solymus, ancestral hero of the Solymi tribe in Lycia
Sostratus, a beloved of Heracles
Sparta, wife of Lacedaemon for whom the city of Sparta was named
Staphylus, the name of several mythological figures
Stentor, a herald of the Greek forces during the Trojan War
Stheneboea, daughter of Iobates and consort of Proteus
Sthenele, the name of several mythological figures
Sthenelus, the name of several mythological figures
Stratonice, the name of several mythological figures
Strophius, the name of several mythological figures
Syleus, a Lydian who forced people to dig his vineyard and was killed by Heracles
Syme, eponym of the island Syme
Tecmessa, the name of several mythological figures
Tegeates, founder of Tegea
Telecleia, a daughter of Ilus and wife of Cisseus
Telegonus, son of Circe and Odysseus
Telemachus, son of Odysseus and Penelope, and a central character in the Odyssey
Teleon, father of Butes and Eribotes
Telephassa, wife of Agenor and mother of Cadmus
Tenes, eponymous hero of Tenedos
Termerus, a bandit killed by Heracles
Theiodamas, the name of several mythological figures
Themiste, a daughter of Ilus and mother of Anchises
Themisto, third wife of Athamas
Theobule, the name of several mythological figures
Theonoe, the name of several mythological figures
Theophane, a lover of Poseidon, changed into an ewe
Thero, the name of several mythological figures
Thersander, the name of several mythological figures
Thersites, a soldier of the Greek army during the Trojan War
Thespius, founder-king of Thespiae, Boeotia
Thestius, father of Iphicles
Thestor, the name of several mythological figures
Thisbe, tragic lover of Pyramus, on whom Shakespeare's Juliet is based
Thoas, a leader of the Aetolian armies during the Trojan War
Thoön, the name of several mythological figures
Thrasymedes, soldier who fought on the side of the Greeks in the Trojan War
Thymoetes, the name of several mythological figures
Timandra, daughter of Leda and Tyndareus
Tithonus, lover of Eos, granted immortality but not eternal youth
Tlepolemus, a son of Heracles who fought in the Trojan War of the side of the Greeks
Toxeus, the name of several mythological characters
Trambelus, a son of Telamon and half-brother of Ajax
Trochilus, possible inventor of the chariot linked to cults of Hera and Demeter
Troezen, a son of Pelops and eponym of the city Troezen
Trophonius, an architect, brother of Agamedes
Tydeus, father of Diomedes and one of the Seven Against Thebes
Tyres, the name of several mythological figures
Tyro, daughter of Salmoneus
Ucalegon, an elder of Troy
Xanthippe, the name of several mythological figures
Xanthius, a descendent of Bellerophon and father of Leucippus
Xanthus, the name of several mythological figures
Xuthus, a son of Hellen and Orseis and father of Ion and Achaeus
Zarex, a son of Carystus and founder of the town Zarex in Laconia
Zetes, an Argonaut and son of Boreas
Zeuxippe, the name of several mythological figures
Zeuxippus, the name of several mythological figures
[edit]

		Chaos
The Void
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Tartarus
The Abyss	
 
Gaia
The Earth	
 
 
Eros
Desire[1]	
 
Erebus
Darkness	
 
Nyx
Night	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Moros
Doom	
 
Oneiroi
Dreams	
 
Nemesis
Retribution	
 
Momus
Blame	
 
Philotes
Affection	
 
Geras
Ageing
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Typhon
Storms	
 
Uranus
The Sky	
 
 
Ourea
Mountains	
 
Pontus
Sea	
 
Aether
Heaven	
 
Hemera
Day	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Thanatos
Death	
 
Hypnos
Sleep	
 
Eris
Strife	
 
Apate
Deceit	
 
Oizys
Distress	
 
Moirai &
Keres
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Erinyes	
 
Gigantes	
 
Meliae	
 
Aphrodite[2]	
 
Hecatonchires	
 
Titans	
 
Cyclopes	
 
Echidna	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oceanus	
 
Tethys	
 
Hyperion	
 
Theia	
 
Coeus	
 
Phoebe	
 
Cronus	
 
Rhea	
 
Themis	
 
Mnemosyne	
 
Crius	
 
Iapetus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Oceanids	
 
 
 
Clymene	
 
Helios	
 
 
Eos	
 
 
 
Asteria	
 
 
Demeter	
 
 
Hestia	
 
 
Hera	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Prometheus	
 
 
Epimetheus
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Inachus	
 
Melia	
 
 
 
Heliades	
 
Selene	
 
 
Leto	
 
Hades	
 
 
Poseidon	
 
 
Zeus	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Muses	
 
Atlas	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Io	
 
Pleione	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Apollo	
 
Artemis	
 
 
 
Persephone	
 
Athena	
 
 
Hebe	
 
 
Hephaestus[3]	
 
 
Ares	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hyades	
 
Hesperides	
 
Pleiades	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Epaphus	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Enyo	
 
Eileithyia	
 
 
Dione
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Dryope	
 
 
 
 
 
 
Maia	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Alcmene	
 
 
 
Semele	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Hermes	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Aphrodite[2]	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Heracles	
 
 
Dionysus	
 
 
Pan	
 
Tyche	
 
Rhode	
 
Peitho	
 
Eunomia	
 
Hermaphroditus	
 
 
Eros[1]	
 
 
Harmonia	
 
 
Deimos	
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Anteros	
 
Himeros	
 
Phobos	
 
 
 
Key: The essential Olympians' names are given in bold font.

Key: The names marked in green are that of the 12 original Titans.

[edit]Notes

^ a b Conflicting origins. Eros is usually mentioned as the son of Aphrodite and Ares, but Hesiod's Theogony places him as one of the primordial beings, born from the Void (Chaos).
^ a b There are two major conflicting stories for Aphrodite's origins: Hesiod (Theogony) claims that she was "born" from the foam of the sea after Cronus castrated Uranus, thus making her Uranus' daughter; but Homer (Iliad, book V) has Aphrodite as daughter of Zeus and Dione. According to Plato (Symposium 180e), the two were entirely separate entities: Aphrodite Ourania and Aphrodite Pandemos.
^ In the mainstream tradition found in Homer, as supported by Attic vase paintings, Hephaestus was the son of Zeus and Hera. However in Hesiod's Theogony 924ff, Hera gave birth to Hephaestus asexually, in order to get back at Zeus for his asexual birthing of Athena. Several late texts also attest this, e.g. Bibliotheke i. 3.5 (consciously contradicting Homer); Hyginus', Preface to Fabulae.

List of Greek mythological creatures
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Cerberus, the three-headed, giant hound that guarded the gates of Hades
Charybdis, a sea monster whose inhalations formed a deadly whirlpool
Empousa, a vampiric demon with a leg of bronze and a hoofed foot of a donkey; she seduced men in order to feed on their flesh and blood
Gorgons, cursed sisters with serpents for hair
Medusa, the sister capable of turning men to stone with her gaze
Stheno, the most murderous of the sisters
Euryale sister most known for her death-bellowing screams
Graeae, three old women with one tooth and one eye among them
Deino
Enyo
Pemphredo
Harpies, winged monsters with the bodies of chickens and the heads and torsos of women
Kobaloi, a species of mischievous creatures, fond of tricking or frightening humans
Mormo, a vampiric creature who bit bad children
Taraxippi, ghosts that frightened horses
Lamia, a vampiric demon which preyed on children
Hydra, a many-headed, water-dwelling, serpent-like creature that guarded an Underworld entrance beneath Lake Lerna. For every head that is cut off, two more grow back It was destroyed by Heracles, in his second Labour
Centaurs, a race of half-man, half-horse beings. Usually sons of Kronos.
Asbolus
Chariclo, wife of the centaur Chiron
Chiron, the eldest and wisest of the Centaurs. The ancient Trainer of Heroes.
Eurytion
Furies, the three Goddess' of pain. Worked for Hades in the Underworld to punish evil souls. Created from the blood of Uranus.
Nessus, a ferryman at the river Euenus
Pholus
Chimera, a three headed monster, with the foreparts of a lion, the middle-parts of a goat and goat's-head rising from its back, and a serpent-headed tail. Slain by Bellerophon
Hippalectryon, a creature with the fore-parts of a rooster and the body of a horse
Hippocampi, sea creatures with the fore-parts of horses and the tails of fish
Ichthyocentaurs, a pair of marine centaurs with the upper bodies of men, the lower fronts of horses, and the tails of fish
Ipotane, a race of half-horse, half-humans
Manticore, a monster with the head of a man, the body of a lion and the tail of a scorpion
Minotaur, a monster with the head of a bull and the body of a man
Ophiotaurus, a creature part bull and part serpent
Orthrus, a two-headed, serpent-tailed dog, slain by Heracles
Panes, a tribe of nature-spirits which had the heads and torsos of men, the legs and tails of goats, goatish faces and goat-horns
Satyrs and Satyresses, companions of Pan and Dionysus which had human upper bodies, the tails of horses, pug-noses and the ears of donkeys
Sileni, a race of elderly Satyrs
Sirens, three winged bird-women whose irresistible song lured sailors to their deaths
Sphinx, a creature with the body of a lion and the head of a woman
Telekhines, skilled metal-workers with the heads of dogs and flippers of seals in place of hands
Amphisbaena, a snake with two heads, one at each end of the body
Arion, the immortal horse of Adrastus
Balius and Xanthus, the immortal horses of Achilles
Calydonian Boar, a gigantic boar sent by Artemis to ravage Calydon and slain in the Calydonian Boar Hunt
Ceryneian Hind, an enormous deer which was sacred to Artemis; Heracles was sent to retrieve it as one of his labours
Chrysomallus, a flying, talking, golden-fleeced ram
Cretan Bull, the bull which impregnated Pasiphaë, resulting in the Minotaur
Erymanthian Boar, a gigantic boar which Heracles was sent to retrieve as one of his labours
Karkinos, a giant crab which fought Heracles alongside the Hydra
Laelaps, a dog destined always to catch its prey
Mares of Diomedes, four man-eating horses belonging to the giant Diomedes
Nemean Lion, a gigantic lion whose skin was impervious to weapons; it was strangled by Heracles
Pegasus, a divine winged horse
Phoenix, golden-red birds that could regenerate themselves or reproduce by bursting into flames and rising from the ashes
Stymphalian Birds, man-eating birds with beaks of bronze and sharp metallic feathers they could launch at their victims
Teumessian fox, a gigantic fox destined never to be caught
Agrius, a man-eating Thracian giant who was half man and half bear
Alcyoneus, the eldest of the Thracian giants, killed by Heracles
The Aloadae, twin giants who attempted to storm Olympus
Alops, a Sicilian giant, slain by Dionysus
Anax, a Lydian giant
Antaeus, a Libyan giant who gained strength from constant contact with the earth and wrestled to death all visitors to his realm until slain by Heracles
Argus Panoptes, a hundred-eyed giant tasked with guarding over Io
Chrysaor, a son of Medusa, sometimes said to be a giant
Cyclopes (Elder), three one-eyed giants who forged Zeus' thunderbolt, Hades' cap of invisibility, and Poseidon's storm-raising trident
Arges
Brontes
Steropes
Cyclopes (Younger), a tribe of one-eyed cannibalistic giants who shepherded flocks of sheep on the island of Sicily
Polyphemus, a cyclops who briefly captured Odysseus and his men, only to be overcome and blinded by the hero
The Hekatoncheires, the Hundred-Handed Ones, giant gods of violent storms and hurricanes.
Briareus or Aigaion (Βριάρεως), The Vigorous
Cottus (Κόττος), The Furious
Gyges (Γύγης), The Big-Limbed
Enceladus, one of the Thracian giants who made war on the gods; he was defeated by Athena and Heracles and buried underneath a mountain
The Gegenees, a tribe of six-armed giants fought by the Argonauts on Bear Mountain in Mysia
Geryon, a three-bodied, four-winged giant who dwelt on the red island of Erytheia
The Laestrygonians, a tribe of man-eating giants encountered by Odysseus on his travels
Polybotes, a giant who fought Poseidon during the Gigantomachy
Porphyrion, a giant who made war on the Olympians and was killed by Heracles. In Hesiod, he was king of the giants
Tityos, a giant slain by Apollo and Artemis when he attempted to violate their mother Leto.
Typhon, a monstrous immortal storm-giant who was defeated and buried underneath Mount Etna
The Colchian Dragon, an unsleeping dragon which guarded the Golden Fleece
Cychreides, a dragon which terrorised Salamis before being slain by Cychreus
The Ismenian Dragon, a dragon which guarded the sacred spring of Ares near Thebes; it was slain by Cadmus
Ladon, a serpent-like dragon which guarded the apples of the Hesperides
The Lernaean Hydra, a nine-headed dragon which guarded the springs of Lerna; it was slain by Heracles
Python, a dragon which guarded the oracle of Delphi; it was slain
Ethiopian Cetus, a sea monster sent by Poseidon to ravage Ethiopia, which was slain by Perseus
Trojan Cetus, a sea monster which plagued Troy before being slain by Heracles
Caucasian Eagle, a giant eagle set by Zeus to feed on the ever-regenerating liver of Prometheus; it was variously described as an automaton and a son of Echidna
The Hippoi Kabeirikoi, four bronze horse-shaped automatons crafted by Hephaestus to draw the chariot of the Cabeiri
The Keledones, singing maidens sculpted out of gold by Hephaestus
The Khalkotauroi, fire-breathing bulls created by Hephaestus as a gift for Aeëtes
The Kourai Khryseai, golden maidens sculpted to Hephaestus to attend him in his household
Talos, a giant man made out of bronze to protect Europa
Arimaspi, a tribe of one-eyed men
Hyperboreans, a mythical people who lived far to the north of Thrace
Monopodes or Skiapodes, a tribe of one-legged Libyan men who used their gigantic feet as shade against the midday sun
Panotii, a tribe of northern men with gigantic, body-length ears
Pygmies, a tribe of one and a half foot tall African men who rode goats into battle against migrating cranes
List of legendary creatures
List of legendary creatures by type
Mythic humanoids

List of Trojan War characters
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This is a list of mythological characters who appear in narratives concerning the Trojan War.



Map of Homeric Greece


Map of the Troad (Troas)
Contents  [hide] 
1 Armies
2 Individuals
2.1 Who killed whom
3 See also
4 External links
[edit]Armies

Greek armies	Trojan armies*
Abantes
Arcadia
Aetolia
Athens and Salamis
Argos and Tiryns
Boebeans (Thessaly)
Boeotia
Crete
Dulichium
Elis
Elone (Thessaly)
Enienes
Iolcus (Thessaly)
Ithaca
Locris
Magnesia
Meliboea
Minyans
Mycenae and Corinth
Myrmidones of Argos
Oechalia
Ormenius
Pherae
Phylacia
Phocia
Pylos
Rhodes
Sparta
Syme	Amazons
Adrasteia
Chalybes (Halizones)
Colonae
Cicones
Dardania
Ethiopia
Lycia
Maeonia
Miletus
Mysia
Paionia
Pelasgians
Percote
Phrygia
Thrace
Troy
Zeleia
* See Catalogue of Ships

[edit]Individuals

Participants on the Greek side (Achaeans)	Participants on the Trojan side
Gods	Humans	Gods	Humans
Athena
Hera
Poseidon
Hermes
Hephaestus
Thetis	Abantes
Acamas
Achilles
Agamemnon
Agapenor
Ajax the great
Ajax the lesser
Alcmaeon
Amphidamas
Amphimachus
Anticlus
Antilochus
Antimachus
Antiphates
Antiphus
Arcesilaus
Ascalaphus
Asclepius
Automedon
Calchas
Canopus
Clonius
Cyanippus
Demophon
Diomedes
Diores
Echion
Epeius
Epistrophus
Eteoneus
Eumelus
Eurymedon
Euryalus
Eurybates
Eurydamas
Eurymachus
Eurypylus
Guneus
Halaesus
Ialmenus
Iasus
Idomeneus
Iphidamas
Leitus
Leonteus
Lykomedes
Machaon
Medon
Meges
Meleager
Menelaus
Menestheus
Meriones
Neoptolemus
Nestor
Nireus
Odysseus
Patroclus
Peneleos
Pheidippus
Philoctetes
Podalirius
Podarces
Podalirius
Polypoetes
Protesilaus
Prothoenor
Prothous
Schedius
Sinon
Stentor
Sthenelus
Talthybius
Teucer
Thalpius
Thersander
Thersites
Thoas
Thrasymedes
Tlepolemus	Aphrodite
Ares
Apollo
Artemis
Zeus
Scamander
Leto
Eris	Acamas
Adrestus
Aeneas
Ainia
Agenor
Amphimachus
Amphius
Anchises
Andromache
Antenor
Antibrote
Antiphus
Archilochus
Ascanius
Asius
Asteropaios
Astyanax
Axylus
Calesius
Caletor
Cassandra
Cebriones
Chromis
Clete
Coroebus
Cycnus
Deiphobus
Dolon
Ennomus
Epistrophus
Eteoneus
Euphemus
Euphorbus
Eurypylus
Eurytion
Glaucus
Gorgythion
Hector
Hecuba
Helenus
Hicetaon
Hippothous
Iapyx
Ilioneus
Imbrius
Laocoon
Lycaon
Memnon
Mentes
Mesthles
Mygdon of Phrygia
Mynes
Nastes
Odius
Othryoneus
Pandarus
Panthous
Paris
Pedasus
Peirous
Penthesilea
Phorcys
Polites
Poludamas
Polyxena
Priam
Pylaemenes
Pylaeus
Pyraechmes
Rhesus
Sarpedon
Scylaceus
Tenes
Troilus
Ucalegon
[edit]Who killed whom
This table lists characters killed during the war, and who was responsible for their deaths.

Character	Killer
Achilles	Paris
Telamonian Ajax	Suicide
Antilochus	Memnon
Antiphus	Agamemnon
Ascalaphus	Deiphobus
Astyanax	Neoptolemus (or Odysseus)
Cebriones	Patroclus
Cycnus	Achilles
Deiphobus	Menelaus
Dolon	Odysseus and Diomedes
Eurypylus	Neoptolemus
Hector	Achilles
Medon	Aeneas
Paris	Philoctetes
Patroclus	Hector
Penthesilea	Achilles
Phorcys	Telamonian Ajax
Polites	Neoptolemus
Polyxena	Neoptolemus
Priam	Aeneas
Protesilaus	Hector
Rhesus	Diomedes
Sarpedon	Patroclus
Thersander	Telephus
Thersites	Achilles
Troilus	Achilles
Two sons of Merops
(Adrastus and Amphius)	Diomedes

List of Roman deities
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Religion in
ancient Rome

Marcus Aurelius (head covered)
sacrificing at the Temple of Jupiter
Practices and beliefs
libation · sacrifice · votum · temples · festivals  · ludi · funerals
Imperial cult · mystery religions
Priesthoods
Pontifex · Augur · Vestal · Flamen
Fetial · Epulones · Arval
Deities
List of Roman deities
Twelve major gods
Capitoline Triad · Aventine Triad
underworld gods · indigitamenta
Deified emperors:
Divus Julius  · Divus Augustus
Related topics
Glossary of ancient Roman religion
Roman mythology
Religion in ancient Greece
Etruscan religion
Gallo-Roman religion
Interpretatio graeca
Decline of Greco-Roman polytheism
v t e
A vast number of ancient Roman deities are known by name. The most familiar today are those the Romans identified with Greek counterparts (see interpretatio graeca), integrating Greek myths, iconography, and sometimes religious practices into Roman culture, including Latin literature, Roman art, and religious life as it was experienced throughout the Empire. Many of the Romans' own gods remain obscure, known only by name and function, through inscriptions and texts that are often fragmentary—particularly those who belong to the archaic religion of the Romans dating back to the era of kings, the so-called "religion of Numa," perpetuated or revived over the centuries. Some archaic deities have Italic or Etruscan counterparts, as identified both by ancient sources and by modern scholars. Throughout the Empire, the deities of peoples in the provinces were given new theological interpretations in light of functions or attributes they shared with Roman deities.

An extensive alphabetical list follows a survey of theological groups as constructed by the Romans themselves.[1] For cult pertaining to deified Roman emperors (divi), see Imperial cult.

[edit]Roman lists

[edit]Triads
Archaic Triad: Jupiter, Mars, Quirinus.
Capitoline Triad: Jupiter, Juno, Minerva[2]
Plebeian or Aventine Triad: Ceres, Liber, Libera, dating to 493 BC.[3]
[edit]Groupings of twelve
[edit]Lectisternium of 217 BC
A lectisternium is a banquet for the gods, at which they appear as images seated on couches, as if present and participating. In describing the lectisternium of the Twelve Great Gods in 217 BC, the Augustan historian Livy places the deities in gender-balanced pairs:[4]

Jupiter-Juno
Neptune-Minerva
Mars-Venus
Apollo-Diana
Vulcan-Vesta
Mercury-Ceres
Divine male-female complements such as these, as well as the anthropomorphic influence of Greek mythology, contributed to a tendency in Latin literature to represent the gods as "married" couples or (as in the case of Venus and Mars) lovers.



Di Consentes on an altar
[edit]Dii Consentes
Varro uses the name Dii Consentes for twelve deities whose gilded images stood in the forum. These were also placed in six male-female pairs.[5] Although individual names are not listed, they are assumed to be the deities of the lectisternium. A fragment from Ennius, within whose lifetime the lectisternium occurred, lists the same twelve deities by name, though in a different order from that of Livy: Juno, Vesta, Minerva, Ceres, Diana, Venus, Mars, Mercurius, Jove, Neptunus, Vulcanus, Apollo.[6]

The Dii Consentes are sometimes seen as the Roman equivalent of the Greek Olympians. The meaning of Consentes is subject to interpretation, but is usually taken to mean that they form a council or consensus of deities.

[edit]Di selecti
Varro[7] gives a list of twenty principal gods of Roman religion:

Janus
Jupiter
Saturn
Genius
Mercury
Apollo
Mars
Vulcan
Neptune
Sol
Orcus
Liber
Tellus
Ceres
Juno
Luna
Diana
Minerva
Venus
Vesta
[edit]Sabine gods


Livia, wife of Augustus, dressed as the goddess Ops
Varro, who was himself of Sabine origin, gives a list of Sabine gods who were adopted by the Romans:

Feronia
Minerva
Novensides[8]
Pales
Salus
Fortuna
Fons
Fides[9]
Ops
Flora
Vediovis
Saturn
Sol
Luna
Vulcan
Summanus
Larunda
Terminus
Quirinus
Vortumnus
Lares
Diana
Lucina
Elsewhere, Varro claims Sol Indiges, who had a sacred grove at Lavinium, as Sabine but at the same time equates him with Apollo.[10] Of those listed, he writes, "several names have their roots in both languages, as trees that grow on a property line creep into both fields. Saturn, for instance, can be said to have another origin here, and so too Diana."[11] Varro makes various claims for Sabine origins throughout his works, some more plausible than others, and his list should not be taken at face value.[12] But the importance of the Sabines in the early cultural formation of Rome is evidenced, for instance, by the bride abduction of the Sabine women by Romulus's men, and in the Sabine ethnicity of Numa Pompilius, second king of Rome, to whom are attributed many of Rome's religious and legal institutions.[13] Varro, however, says that the altars to most of these gods were established at Rome by King Tatius as the result of a vow (votum).[14]

[edit]Collectives

Even in invocations, which generally required precise naming, the Romans sometimes spoke of gods as groups or collectives rather than naming them as individuals. Some groups, such as the Camenae and Parcae, were thought of as a limited number of individual deities, even though the number of these might not be given consistently in all periods and all texts. The following groups, however, are numberless collectives.

[edit]Spatial tripartition
Varro grouped the gods broadly into three divisions of heaven, earth, and underworld:

di superi, the gods above or heavenly gods, whose altars were designated as altaria.[15]
di terrestres, "terrestrial gods," whose altars were designated as arae.
di inferi, the gods below, that is, the gods of the underworld, infernal or chthonic gods, whose altars were foci, fire pits or specially constructed hearths.
More common is a dualistic contrast between superi and inferi.

[edit]Di indigetes and novensiles
The di indigetes were thought by Georg Wissowa to be Rome's indigenous deities, in contrast to the di novensides or novensiles, "newcomer gods". No ancient source, however, poses this dichotomy, which is not generally accepted among scholars of the 21st century. The meaning of the epithet indiges (singular) has no scholarly consensus, and noven may mean "nine" (novem) rather than "new".

[edit]Household and ancestral divinities


Winged Genius holding a serpent in each hand (fragment of a wall painting from Roman Gaul, 1st century CE)
Genius, the tutelary deity of each individual, representing that person's divine nature
Lares, household gods
Lemures, the restless or malevolent dead
Manes or Di manes, spirits of the dead
Penates or Di penates, tutelary deities
[edit]Titles and honorifics

Certain honorifics and titles could be shared by different gods, divine personifications, demi-gods and divi (deified mortals).

[edit]Augustus and Augusta
Augustus, "the elevated or august one" (masculine form) is an honorific and title awarded to Octavian in recognition of his unique status, the extraordinary range of his powers, and the apparent divine approval of his principate. After his death and deification, the title was awarded to each of his successors. It also became a near ubiquitous title or honour for various minor local deities, including the Lares Augusti of local communities, and obscure provincial deities such as the North African Marazgu Augustus. This extension of an Imperial honorific to major and minor deities of Rome and her provinces is considered a ground-level feature of Imperial cult.

Augusta, the feminine form, is an honorific and title associated with the development and dissemination of Imperial cult as applied to Roman Empresses, whether living, deceased or deified as divae. The first Augusta was Livia, wife of Octavian, and the title is then shared by various state goddesses including Bona Dea, Ceres, Juno, Minerva, and Ops; by many minor or local goddesses; and by the female personifications of Imperial virtues such as Pax and Victoria.

[edit]Bonus and Bona
The epithet Bonus, "the Good," is used in Imperial ideology with abstract deities such as Bona Fortuna ("Good Fortune"), Bona Mens ("Good Thinking" or "Sound Mind"), and Bona Spes ("Valid Hope," perhaps to be translated as "Optimism"). During the Republic, the epithet may be most prominent with Bona Dea, "the Good Goddess" whose rites were celebrated by women. Bonus Eventus, "Good Outcome," was one of Varro's twelve agricultural deities, and later represented success in general.[16]

[edit]Caelestis


Roman Isis in black and white marble, from the time of Apuleius
From the middle Imperial period, the title Caelestis, "Heavenly" or "Celestial", is attached to several goddesses embodying aspects of a single, supreme Heavenly Goddess. The Dea Caelestis was identified with the constellation Virgo (the Virgin), who holds the divine balance of justice. In the Metamorphoses of Apuleius,[17] the protagonist Lucius prays to the Hellenistic Egyptian goddess Isis as Regina Caeli, "Queen of Heaven," who is said to manifest also as Ceres, "the original nurturing parent"; Heavenly Venus (Venus Caelestis); the "sister of Phoebus", that is, Diana or Artemis as she is worshipped at Ephesus; or Proserpina as the triple goddess of the underworld. Juno Caelestis was the Romanised form of the Carthaginian Tanit.[18]

Grammatically, the form Caelestis can also be a masculine word, but the equivalent function for a male deity is usually expressed through syncretization with Caelus, as in Caelus Aeternus Iuppiter, "Jupiter the Eternal Sky."

[edit]Mater and Pater
Mater ("Mother") is an honorific that respects a goddess's maternal authority and functions, and not necessarily "motherhood" per se. Early examples include Terra Mater (Mother Earth) and the Mater Larum (Mother of the Lares). Vesta, a goddess of chastity usually conceived of as a virgin, is honored as Mater. A goddess known as Stata Mater was a compital deity credited with preventing fires in the city.[19]

From the middle Imperial era, the reigning Empress becomes Mater castrorum et senatus et patriae, the symbolic Mother of military camps, the senate, and the fatherland. The Gallic and Germanic cavalry (auxilia) of the Roman Imperial army regularly set up altars to the "Mothers of the Field" (Campestres, from campus, "field," with the title Matres or Matronae).[20] See also Magna Mater (Great Mother) following.

Gods are called Pater ("Father") to signify their preeminence and paternal care, and the filial respect owed to them. Pater is found as an epithet of Dis, Jupiter, Mars, and Liber, among others.

[edit]Magna Mater
"The Great Mother" was a title given Cybele in her Roman cult, though not exclusive to her. Some Roman literary sources accord the same title to Maia, inferring that both goddesses are aspects of a supreme "Great Mother".

[edit]Indigitamenta

Main article: Indigitamenta
The indigitamenta are deities known only or primarily as a name; they may be minor entities, or epithets of major gods. Lists of deities were kept by the College of Pontiffs to assure that the correct names were invoked for public prayers. The books of the Pontiffs are lost, known only through scattered passages in Latin literature. The most extensive lists are provided by the Church Fathers who sought systematically to debunk Roman religion while drawing on the theological works of Varro, also surviving only in quoted or referenced fragments. W.H. Roscher collated the standard modern list of indigitamenta,[21] though other scholars may differ with him on some points.

[edit]Alphabetical list

For minor deities known for a single function or by a single name, see:

Indigitamenta
List of Roman birth and childhood deities
List of Roman agricultural deities
A number of figures from Greek mythology who were not part of Roman religious practice appear in Latin mythological narratives and as poetic allusions; for these names, see:

List of Greek mythological figures


Contents:		
Top   0–9 A B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V W X Y Z
[edit]A


A "lizard-slayer" Apollo on a mosaic from Roman Africa
Abundantia, divine personification of abundance and prosperity.
Acca Larentia, a diva of complex meaning and origin in whose honor the Larentalia was held.
Acis, god of the Acis River in Sicily.
Aerecura, goddess possibly of Celtic origin, associated with the underworld and identified with Proserpina.
Aequitas, divine personification of fairness.
Aesculapius, the Roman equivalent of Asclepius, god of health and medicine.
Aeternitas, goddess and personification of eternity.
Aion (Latin spelling Aeon), Hellenistic god of cyclical or unbounded time, related to the concepts of aevum or saeculum
Aius Locutius, divine voice that warned the Romans of the imminent Gallic invasion.
Alernus or Elernus (possibly Helernus), an archaic god whose sacred grove (lucus) was near the Tiber river. He is named definitively only by Ovid.[22] The grove was the birthplace of the nymph Cranea, and despite the obscurity of the god, the state priests still carried out sacred rites (sacra) there in the time of Augustus.[23] Alernus may have been a chthonic god, if a black ox was the correct sacrificial offering to him, since dark victims were offered to underworld gods.[24] Dumézil wanted to make him a god of beans.[25]
Angerona, goddess who relieved people from pain and sorrow.
Angitia, goddess associated with snakes and Medea.
Anna Perenna, early goddess of the "circle of the year", her festival was celebrated March 15.
Annona, the divine personification of the grain supply to the city of Rome.
Antevorta, goddess of the future and one of the Camenae; also called Porrima.
Apollo, god of poetry, music, and oracles, and one of the Dii Consentes.
Arimanius, an obscure Mithraic god.
Aura, often plural Aurae, "the Breezes".
Aurora, goddess of the dawn.
Averruncus, a god propitiated to avert calamity.
[edit]B


A Bacchus from Roman Spain, 2nd century
Bacchus, god of wine, sensual pleasures, and truth, originally a cult title for the Greek Dionysus and identified with the Roman Liber.
Bellona or Duellona, war goddess.
Bona Dea, the "women's goddess"[26] with functions pertaining to fertility, healing, and chastity.
Bonus Eventus, divine personification of "Good Outcome".
Bubona, goddess of cattle.
[edit]C
Caca, an archaic fire goddess and "proto-Vesta";[27] the sister of Cacus.
Cacus, originally an ancient god of fire, later regarded as a giant.
Caelus, sky god equivalent to Greek Ouranos.
Camenae, goddesses with various attributes including fresh water, prophecy, and childbirth. There were four of them: Carmenta, Egeria, Antevorta, and Postvorta.
Cardea, goddess of the hinge (cardo), identified by Ovid with Carna (below)
Carmenta, goddess of childbirth and prophecy, and assigned a flamen minor. The leader of the Camenae.
Carmentes, two goddesses of childbirth: Antevorta and Postvorta or Porrima, future and past.
Carna, goddess who preserved the health of the heart and other internal organs.
Ceres, goddess of the harvest and mother of Proserpina, and one of the Dii Consentes.
Clementia, goddess of forgiveness and mercy.
Cloacina, goddess who presided over the system of sewers in Rome; identified with Venus.
Concordia, goddess of agreement, understanding, and marital harmony.
Consus, chthonic god protecting grain storage.
Cupid, Roman god of love. The son of Venus, and equivalent to Greek Eros.
Cura, personification of care and concern who according to a single source[28] created humans from clay.
Cybele, an imported tutelary goddess often identified with Magna Mater
[edit]D
Dea Dia, goddess of growth.
Dea Tacita ("The Silent Goddess"), a goddess of the dead; later equated with the earth goddess Larenta.
Decima, minor goddess and one of the Parcae (Roman equivalent of the Moirai). The measurer of the thread of life, her Greek equivalent was Lachesis.


Diana Nemorensis on a denarius
Devera or Deverra, goddess who ruled over the brooms used to purify temples in preparation for various worship services, sacrifices and celebrations; she protected midwives and women in labor.
Diana, goddess of the hunt, the moon, virginity, and childbirth, twin sister of Apollo and one of the Dii Consentes.
Diana Nemorensis, local version of Diana.
Dius Fidius, god of oaths, associated with Jupiter.
Disciplina, personification of discipline.
Dis Pater or Dispater, god of wealth and the underworld; perhaps a translation of Greek Plouton (Pluto).
[edit]E


The Gallo-Roman horse goddess Epona
Egeria, water nymph or goddess, later considered one the Camenae.
Empanda or Panda, a goddess whose temple never closed to those in need.
Epona, Gallo-Roman goddess of horses and horsemanship, usually assumed to be of Celtic origin.
[edit]F
Falacer, obscure god. He was assigned a minor flamen.
Fama, goddess of fame and rumor.
Fascinus, phallic god who protected from invidia (envy) and the evil eye.
Fauna, goddess of prophecy, but perhaps a title of other goddesses such as Maia.
Faunus, god of flocks.
Faustitas, goddess who protected herd and livestock.
Februus, god of Etruscan origin for whom the month of February was named; concerned with purification
Febris, "Fever," goddess with the power to cause or prevent fevers and malaria.
Fecunditas, personification of fertility.
Felicitas, personification of good luck and success.
Ferentina, patron goddess of the city Ferentinum, Latium, protector of the Latin commonwealth.
Feronia, goddess concerned with plebeians, freedmen, and liberality in a general sense.
Fides, personification of loyalty.
Flora, goddess of flowers, was assigned a flamen minor.
Fornax, goddess probably conceived of to explain the Fornacalia, "Oven Festival."
Fontus or Fons, god of wells and springs.
Fortuna, goddess of fortune.
Fulgora, personification of lightning.
Furrina, goddess whose functions are mostly unknown, but in archaic times important enough to be assigned a flamen.
[edit]G
Genius, the tutelary spirit or divinity of each individual
Gratiae, Roman term for the Charites or Graces.
[edit]H


Roman statue of the infant Hercules strangling a snake
Hercules, god of strength, whose worship was derived from the Greek hero Heracles but took on a distinctly Roman character.
Hermaphroditus, an androgynous Greek god whose mythology was imported into Latin literature.
Hilaritas, goddess of rejoicing and good humor.[citation needed]
Honos, a divine personification of honor.
Hora, the wife of Quirinus.
[edit]I
Indiges, the deified Aeneas.
Intercidona, minor goddess of childbirth; invoked to keep evil spirits away from the child; symbolised by a cleaver.
Inuus, god of fertility and sexual intercourse, protector of livestock.
Invidia, goddess of envy or jealousy.
Isis, the Egyptian goddess in her Hellenistic form.
Iris, goddess of the rainbow.
[edit]J


A janiform sculpture, perhaps of Janus
Janus, double-faced or two-headed god of beginnings and endings and of doors.
Juno, Queen of the Gods and goddess of matrimony, and one of the Dii Consentes.
Jupiter, King of the Gods and the storm, air, and sky god, father of Venus, and one of the Dii Consentes; was assigned a flamen maior.
Justitia, goddess of justice.
Juturna, goddess of fountains, wells, and springs.
Juventas, goddess of youth.
[edit]L
Lares, household gods.
Laverna, patroness of thieves, con men and charlatans.
Levana, goddess of the rite through which fathers accepted newborn babies as their own.
Letum, personification of death.[citation needed]
Liber, a god of male fertility, viniculture and freedom, assimilated to Roman Bacchus and Greek Dionysus.
Libera, Liber's female equivalent, assimilated to Roman Proserpina and Greek Persephone.
Liberalitas, goddess or personification of generosity.
Libertas, goddess or personification of freedom.
Libitina, goddess of death, corpses and funerals.
Lua, goddess to whom soldiers sacrificed captured weapons, probably a consort of Saturn.
Lucina, goddess of childbirth, but often as an aspect of Juno.
Luna, goddess of the moon.
Lupercus, god of shepherds; as the god of the Lupercalia, his identity is obscure, but he is sometimes identified with the Greek god Pan.
Lympha, often plural lymphae, a water deity assimilated to the Greek nymphs.
[edit]M


Capitoline Triad of Juno, Jupiter, and Minerva
Mana Genita, goddess of infant mortality
Manes, the souls of the dead who came to be seen as household deities.
Mania, the consort of the Etruscan underworld god Mantus, and perhaps to be identified with the tenebrous Mater Larum; not to be confused with the Greek Maniae.
Mantus, an Etruscan god of the dead and ruler of the underworld.
Mars, god of war and father of Romulus, the founder of Rome; one of the Archaic Triad assigned a flamen maior; lover of Venus; one of the Dii Consentes.
Mater Matuta, goddess of dawn and childbirth, patroness of mariners.
Meditrina, goddess of healing, introduced to account for the festival of Meditrinalia.
Mefitis or Mephitis, goddess and personification of poisonous gases and volcanic vapours.
Mellona or Mellonia, goddess of bees and beekeeping.
Mercury, messenger of the gods and bearer of souls to the underworld, and one of the Dii Consentes.
Minerva, goddess of wisdom, war, the arts, industries and trades, and one of the Dii Consentes.
Mithras, god worshipped in the Roman empire; popular with soldiers.
Molae, daughters of Mars, probably goddesses of grinding of the grain.
Moneta, minor goddess of memory, equivalent to the Greek Mnemosyne. Also used as an epithet of Juno.
Mors, personification of death and equivalent of the Greek Thanatos.
Morta, minor goddess of death and one of the Parcae (Roman equivalent of the Moirai). The cutter of the thread of life, her Greek equivalent was Atropos.
Murcia or Murtia, a little-known goddess who was associated with the myrtle, and in other sources was called a goddess of sloth and laziness (both interpretations arising from false etymologies of her name). Later equated with Venus in the form of Venus Murcia.
Mutunus Tutunus, a phallic god.
[edit]N


Neptune velificans on a 3rd-century mosaic
Naenia, goddess of funerary lament.
Nascio, personification of the act of birth.
Necessitas, goddess of destiny, the Roman equivalent of Ananke.
Nemesis, goddess of revenge (Greek).
Neptune, god of the sea, earthquakes, and horses, and one of the Dii Consentes. Greek Equivalent is Poseidon.
Nerio, ancient war goddess and the personification of valor. The consort of Mars.
Neverita, wife of Neptune; their quarrels caused sea storms.[citation needed]
Nixi, also di nixi, dii nixi, or Nixae, goddesses of childbirth,.
Nona, minor goddess, one of the Parcae (Roman equivalent of the Moirai). The spinner of the thread of life, her Greek equivalent was Clotho.
Nox, goddess of night, derived from the Greek Nyx.
[edit]O
Ops or Opis, goddess of resources or plenty.
Orcus, a god of the underworld and punisher of broken oaths.
[edit]P
Palatua, obscure goddess who guarded the Palatine Hill. She was assigned a flamen minor.
Pales, deity of shepherds, flocks and livestock.
Parcae, the three fates.
Pax, goddess of peace; equivalent of Greek Eirene.


Aeneas and the Penates, from a 4th-century manuscript
Penates or Di Penates, household gods.
Picumnus, minor god of fertility, agriculture, matrimony, infants and children.
Picus, Italic woodpecker god with oracular powers.
Pietas, goddess of duty; personification of the Roman virtue pietas.
Pilumnus, minor guardian god, concerned with the protection of infants at birth.
Pluto, Greek Plouton, a name for the ruler of the dead popularized through the mystery religions and Greek philosophy, sometimes used in Latin literature and identified with Dis pater or Orcus.
Poena, goddess of punishment.[citation needed]
Pomona, goddess of fruit trees, gardens and orchards; assigned a flamen minor.
Porrima, goddess of the future. Also called Antevorta. One of the Carmentes and the Camenae.
Portunes, god of keys, doors, and livestock, he was assigned a flamen minor.
Postverta or Prorsa Postverta, goddess of childbirth and the past, one of the two Carmentes (other being Porrima).
Priapus, imported phallic guardian of guardians.
Proserpina, Queen of the Dead and a grain-goddess, the Roman equivalent of the Greek Persephone.
Providentia, goddess of forethought.
Pudicitia, goddess and personification of chastity, one of the Roman virtues. Her Greek equivalent was Aidôs.
[edit]Q
Quirinus, Sabine god identified with Mars; Romulus, the founder of Rome, was deified as Quirinus after his death. Quirinus was a war god and a god of the Roman people and state, and was assigned a flamen maior.
Quiritis, goddess of motherhood. Originally Sabine or pre-Roman, she was later equated with Juno.
[edit]R
Robigo or Robigus, a god or goddess who personified grain disease and protected crops.
Roma, personification of the Roman state.
Rumina, goddess who protected breastfeeding mothers.
[edit]S


Sol Invictus, or Christ depicted in his guise
Salacia, goddess of seawater, wife of Neptune.
Salus, goddess of the public welfare of the Roman people; came to be equated with the Greek Hygieia.
Sancus, god of loyalty, honesty, and oaths.
Saturn, a titan, god of harvest and agriculture, the father of Jupiter, Neptune, Juno, and Pluto.
Securitas, goddess of security, especially the security of the Roman empire.
Silvanus, god of woodlands and forests.
Sol Invictus, sun god.
Somnus, god of sleep; equates with the Greek Hypnos.
Soranus, a god later subsumed by Apollo in the form Apollo Soranus.
Sors, god of luck.
Spes, goddess of hope.
Stata Mater, goddess who protected against fires. Sometimes equated with Vesta.
Sterquilinus ("Manure"), god of fertilizer. Also known as Stercutus, Sterculius, Straculius, Struculius.
Suadela, goddess of persuasion, her Greek equivalent was Peitho.
Summanus, god of nocturnal thunder.
Sulis Minerva, a conflation of the Celtic goddess Sul and Minerva
[edit]T
Tellumo, male counterpart of Tellus.
Tempestas, a goddess of storms or sudden weather, usually plural as the Tempestates
Terra Mater or Tellus, goddess of the earth and land.
Terminus, the rustic god of boundaries.
Tiberinus, river god; deity of the Tiber river.
Tibertus, god of the river Anio, a tributary of the Tiber.
Tranquillitas, goddess of peace and tranquility.
Trivia, goddess of crossroads and magic, equated with Hecate.
[edit]U
Ubertas, minor agricultural goddess, who personified fruitfulness of soil and plants, and abundance in general.
Unxia, minor goddess of marriage, concerned with anointing the bridegroom's door. The name occurs as a surname of Juno.
Uranus, god of the sky before Jupiter (Greek).
[edit]V


Venus, Mars, and Cupid on a wall painting from Pompeii
Vacuna, ancient Sabine goddess of rest after harvest who protected the farmers' sheep; later identified with Nike and worshipped as a war goddess.
Vediovus or Veiovis, obscure god, a sort of anti-Jupiter, as the meaning of his name suggests. May be a god of the underworld.
Venilia or Venelia, sea goddess, wife of Neptune or Faunus.[citation needed]
Venti, the winds, equivalent to the Greek Anemoi: North wind Aquilo(n) or Septentrio (Greek Boreas); South wind Auster (Greek Notus); East wind Vulturnus (Eurus); West wind Favonius (Zephyrus); Northwest wind Caurus or Corus (see minor winds).
Venus, goddess of love, beauty, sexuality, and gardens; mother of the founding hero Aeneas; one of the Dii Consentes.
Veritas, goddess and personification of the Roman virtue of veritas or truth.
Verminus, god of cattle worms.
Vertumnus, Vortumnus or Vertimnus, god of the seasons, and of gardens and fruit trees.
Vesta, goddess of the hearth, the Roman state, and the sacred fire; one of the Dii Consentes.
Vica Pota, goddess of victory and competitions.
Victoria, goddess of victory.
Virbius, a forest god, the reborn Hippolytus.
Virtus, god or goddess of military strength, personification of the Roman virtue of virtus.
Volturnus, god of water, was assigned a flamen minor. Not to be confused with Vulturnus.
Voluptas, goddess of pleasure.
Vulcan, god of the forge, fire, and blacksmiths, husband to Venus, and one of the Dii Consentes, was assigned a flamen minor.

205 Roman deities currently in database.
(Some Gods have several names. This page lists 241 names in total.)

Roman Gods: A
Abeona, Abundantia, Acca Larentia, Adeona, Aequitas, Aestas, Africus, Aius Locutius, Aius Locutus, Albunea, Alemonia, Alpan, Alpanu, Angerona, Angita, Ani, Anna Perenna, Annona, Aplu, Apulu, Aquilo, Artume, Aurora, Auster, 
Roman Gods: B
Bacchae, Bacchus, Bellifluficus, Bellona, Bona Dea, Bonus Eventus, Bubona,
Roman Gods: C
Caca, Calva, Camenae, Candelifera, Canens, Cardea, Carmenta, Carna, Cath, Catha, Cautha, Ceres, Cetha, Charun, Clementia, Cloacina, Concordia, Consus, Credulitas, Cuba, Culsu, Cupid, Cupra, 
Roman Gods: D
Decima, Di Manes, Di Penates, Diana, Dies Pater, Dis, Dis Pater, Disciplina, Discordia, Dius Fidus, 
Roman Gods: E
Egeria, Egestes, Empanda, Endovelicus, Evan, Evander, Eventus Bonus, 
Roman Gods: F
Fabulinus, Faflon, Fama, Fame, Fames, Fascinus, Fauna, Faunus, Fauonius, Faustulus, Februus, Felicitas, Feronia, Fides, Flora, Fons, Fontus, Fornax, Fortuna, Fraud, Fraus, Friendship, Fufluns, 
Roman Gods: G
Genius, 
Roman Gods: H
Hercules, Hersilia, Hippona, Honor, Hope, Horta, 
Roman Gods: I
Ilia, Ilythyia Leucothea, Invidia, 
Roman Gods: J
Janus, Jove, Juno, Jupiter, Jupiter Victor, Justicia, Juturna, Juventas, 
Roman Gods: K
- No entries found.
Roman Gods: L
Laetitia, Lara, Laran, Lares, Larvae, Lasas, Latinus, Laverna, Lemures, Liber, Liber Pater, Libera, Libitina, Loquens, Losna, Lucifer, Luna, Lunar, Lupercus, 
Roman Gods: M
Manes, Mania, Mantus, Marica, Mars, Mater Matuta, Men, Mena, Menerva, Menrva, Mephitis, Mercury, Minerva, Minerva Medica, Mithras, Mors, Morta, Mortia, Mulciber, 
Roman Gods: N
Necessitas, Neptune, Nethuns, Nicostrate, Nona, Nono, Nortia, Nymphs(2), 
Roman Gods: O
Optimus Maximus, Orcus, Ors, 
Roman Gods: P
Pales, Palladium, Pallas(4), Pallas(6), Parcae, Pax, Penates, Phoebus, Picus, Pietus, Pilumnus, Pleasure, Pluto, Pomona, Portunus, Postvorta, Proserpina, Prudence, Pudicitia, 
Roman Gods: Q
Quirinus, 
Roman Gods: R
Rea Silvia, Remus, Rhea Silvia, Robiga, Robigus, Roma, Romulus, 
Roman Gods: S
Salacia, Salus, Saritor, Saturn, Saturnus, Selvans, Sequana, Sethlans, Sibyl of Cumae(2), Silvanus, Sol(2), Somnus, Spes, Strenua, Striges, Sturculinus, Summanus, Suovetaurilia, Susurri, Sylvanus, 
Roman Gods: T
Tages, Telluno, Tellus, Terminus, Thalna, Thesan, Tiberinus, Timores, Tin, Tinia, Tinis, Trivia, Tuchulcha, Turan, Turms, 
Roman Gods: U
Uni, 
Roman Gods: V
Vanth, Veiovis, Veive, Venus, Verbeia, Veritas, Vertumnus, Vesta, Victory, Virbius, Virtus, Voltumna, Volturnus, Volupta, Voluptas, Vulcan, Vulturnus, 
Roman Gods: W
- No entries found.
Roman Gods: X
- No entries found.
Roman Gods: Y
- No entries found.
Roman Gods: Z
- No entries found.

Atlas (mythology)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For other uses, see Atlas (disambiguation).
Atlas

Farnese Atlas, a 3rd century Roman copy of a Hellenistic work (Naples)
Abode	Western edge of Gaia (the Earth)
Parents	Iapetus and Asia
Children	Hesperides, Hyades, Hyas, Pleiades, Calypso, Dione and Maera
In Greek mythology, Atlas (/ˈætləs/; Ancient Greek: Ἄτλας) was the primordial Titan who held up the celestial sphere. Although associated with various places, he became commonly identified with the Atlas Mountains in northwest Africa (Modern-day Morocco and Algeria).[1] Atlas was the son of the Titan Iapetus and the Oceanid Asia[2] or Klyménē (Κλυμένη):[3]

Now Iapetus took to wife the neat-ankled maid Clymene, daughter of Ocean, and went up with her into one bed. And she bare him a stout-hearted son, Atlas: also she bare very glorious Menoetius and clever Prometheus, full of various wiles, and scatter-brained Epimetheus.
—Hesiod, Theogony 507–11
In contexts where a Titan and a Titaness are assigned each of the seven planetary powers, Atlas is paired with Phoebe and governs the moon.[not in citation given][4] He had three brothers: Prometheus, Epimetheus and Menoetius.[5]

Hyginus emphasises the primordial nature of Atlas by making him the son of Aether and Gaia.[6]

The first part of the term "Atlantic Ocean" refers to "Sea of Atlas", the term "Atlantis" refers to "island of Atlas".

Contents  [hide] 
1 Etymology
2 Punishment
2.1 Variations
3 Encounter with Heracles
4 Etruscan Aril
5 Children
6 Cultural influence
7 See also
8 Notes
9 References
[edit]Etymology



Sculpture of Atlas, Praza do Toural, Santiago de Compostela.
The etymology of the name Atlas is uncertain and still debated. Virgil took pleasure in translating etymologies of Greek names by combining them with adjectives that explained them: for Atlas his adjective is durus, "hard, enduring",[7] which suggested to George Doig[8] that Virgil was aware of the Greek τλήναι "to endure"; Doig offers the further possibility that Virgil was aware of Strabo's remark that the native North African name for this mountain was Douris. Since the Atlas mountains rise in the region inhabited by Berbers, it has been suggested that the name might be taken from one of the Berber languages, specifically adrar, Berber for "mountain".[9]

Some modern linguists derive it and its Greek root from the Proto-Indo-European root *tel, 'to uphold, support'; others[citation needed] suggest that it is a pre-Indo-European name. Others hold it is pre-Indo-European, or Pelasgian in origin, associated with the word "thalassa", meaning "sea".

[edit]Punishment

Atlas and his brother Menoetius sided with the Titans in their war against the Olympians, the Titanomachy. His brothers Prometheus and Epimetheus weighed the odds and betrayed the other Titans by forming an alliance with the Olympians. When the Titans were defeated, many of them (including Menoetius) were confined to Tartarus, but Zeus condemned Atlas to stand at the western edge of Gaia (the Earth) and hold up Uranus (the Sky) on his shoulders, to prevent the two from resuming their primordial embrace. Thus, he was Atlas Telamon, "enduring Atlas," and became a doublet of Koios, the embodiment of the celestial axis around which the heavens revolve.[10]

A common interpretation today is that Atlas was forced to hold the Earth on his shoulders, but Classical art shows Atlas holding the celestial spheres, not a globe; the solidity of the marble globe born by the renowned Farnese Atlas may have aided the conflation, reinforced in the 16th century by the developing usage of atlas to describe a corpus of terrestrial maps.



Greco-Buddhist (1-200 BC) Atlas, supporting a Buddhist monument, Hadda, Afghanistan.
[edit]Variations
In a late story,[11] a giant named Atlas tried to drive a wandering Perseus from the place where the Atlas mountains now stand. In Ovid's telling,[12] Perseus revealed Medusa's head, turning Atlas to stone (those very mountains) when he tried to drive him away, as a prophecy said that a son of Zeus would steal the golden apples. As is not uncommon in myth, this account cannot be reconciled with the far more common stories of Atlas' dealings with Heracles, who was Perseus' great-grandson.

According to Plato, the first king of Atlantis was also named Atlas, but that Atlas was a son of Poseidon and the mortal woman Cleito.[13] A euhemerist origin for Atlas was as a legendary Atlas, king of Mauretania, an expert astronomer. Some say he is even the god of astronomy.

[edit]Encounter with Heracles

One of the Twelve Labors of the hero Heracles was to fetch some of the golden apples which grow in Hera's garden, tended by Atlas' daughters, the Hesperides, and guarded by the dragon Ladon. Heracles went to Atlas and offered to hold up the heavens while Atlas got the apples from his daughters.

Upon his return with the apples, however, Atlas attempted to trick Heracles into carrying the sky permanently by offering to deliver the apples himself, as anyone who purposely took the burden must carry it forever, or until someone else took it away. Heracles, suspecting Atlas did not intend to return, pretended to agree to Atlas' offer, asking only that Atlas take the sky again for a few minutes so Heracles could rearrange his cloak as padding on his shoulders. When Atlas set down the apples and took the heavens upon his shoulders again, Heracles took the apples and ran away.

In some versions,[14] Heracles instead built the two great Pillars of Hercules to hold the sky away from the earth, liberating Atlas much as he liberated Prometheus.

[edit]Etruscan Aril

The identifying name Aril is inscribed on two 5th-century Etruscan bronze items, a mirror from Vulci and a ring from an unknown site.[15] Both objects depict the encounter with Atlas of Hercle, the Etruscan Heracles, identified by the inscription; they represent rare instances where a figure from Greek mythology is imported into Etruscan mythology, but the name is not. The Etruscan name aril is etymologically independent.

[edit]Children



Lee Lawrie's colossal bronze Atlas, Rockefeller Center, New York.
Sources describe Atlas as the father, by different goddesses, of numerous children, mostly daughters. Some of these are assigned conflicting or overlapping identities or parentage in different sources.

By Hesperis:
the Hesperides[16]
By Pleione (or Aethra[17]):
the Hyades[18]
a son, Hyas[18]
the Pleiades[19]
By one or more unspecified goddesses:
Calypso[20]
Dione[21]
Maera[22]
[edit]Cultural influence

Main article: Atlas (disambiguation)


Atlas supports the terrestrial globe on a building in Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia.


Nautilus Cup. This drinking vessel, for court feasts, depicts Atlas holding the shell on his back.[23] The Walters Art Museum.
Atlas' best-known cultural association is in cartography. The first publisher to associate the Titan Atlas with a group of maps was the print-seller Antonio Lafreri, on the engraved title-page he applied to his ad hoc assemblages of maps, Tavole Moderne Di Geografia De La Maggior Parte Del Mondo Di Diversi Autori (1572);[24] however, he did not use the word "atlas" in the title of his work, an innovation of Gerardus Mercator, who dedicated his "atlas" specifically "to honour the Titan, Atlas, King of Mauretania, a learned philosopher, mathematician, and astronomer"; he actually depicted the astronomer king.

Tartarus
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This article is about the deity and the place in Greek mythology. For other uses, see Tartarus (disambiguation).


Persephone supervising Sisyphus in the Underworld, Attis black-figure amphora, ca. 530 BC.
Greek deities
series
Titans and Olympians
Aquatic deities
Chthonic deities
Personified concepts
Other deities
Primordial deities
Aether
Ananke
Chaos
Chronos
Erebus
Eros
Gaia
Hemera
Nyx
Phanes
Pontus
Tartarus
Thalassa
Uranus
In classic mythology, below Uranus (sky), Gaia (earth), and Pontus (sea) is Tartarus, or Tartaros (Greek: Τάρταρος, from τάρταρον "tartar encrusting the sides of casks"). It is a deep, gloomy place, a pit, or an abyss used as a dungeon of torment and suffering that resides beneath the underworld. In the Gorgias, Plato (c. 400 BC) wrote that souls were judged after death and those who received punishment were sent to Tartarus.

Like other primal entities (such as the earth and time), Tartarus is also a primordial force or deity.

Tartarus was used as a prison for the worst of villains, including Cronus and the other Titans who were thrown in by Zeus. Uranus also threw his own children into Tartarus because he feared they might overthrow him. These mishaps included the "hundred-handed-ones", the "cyclops" and the "giants".

Contents  [hide] 
1 Greek mythology
2 Roman mythology
3 Biblical Pseudepigrapha
4 New Testament
5 See also
6 Notes and references
[edit]Greek mythology

Greek underworld
Residents
Aeacus
Cerberus
Charon
Erinyes
Hades
Hecate
Hypnos
Melinoe
Minos
Moirai
Persephone
Rhadamanthus
Thanatos
Geography
Acheron
Asphodel
Fields
Cocytus
Elysion
Erebus
Lethe
Phlegethon
Styx
Tartarus
Famous inmates
The Danaides
Ixion
Salmoneus
Sisyphus
Tantalus
The Titans
Tityus
Visitors
Aeneas
Dionysus
Heracles
Hermes
Odysseus
Orpheus
Pirithous
Psyche
Theseus
This box: view talk edit
In Greek mythology, Tartarus is both a deity and a place in the underworld. In ancient Orphic sources and in the mystery schools, Tartarus is also the unbounded first-existing entity from which the Light and the cosmos are born.

In the Greek poet Hesiod's Theogony, c. 700 BC, the deity Tartarus was the third force to manifest in the yawning void of Chaos.

As for the place, Hesiod asserts that a bronze anvil falling from heaven would fall 9 days before it reached the Earth. The anvil would take nine more days to fall from Earth to Tartarus. In The Iliad (c. 700 BC), Zeus asserts that Tartarus is "as far beneath Hades as heaven is high above the earth." It is one of the primordial objects that sprung from Chaos, along with Gaia (Earth) and Eros (desire).

While, according to Greek mythology, The Realm of Hades is the place of the dead, Tartarus also has a number of inhabitants. When Cronus came to power as the King of the Titans, he imprisoned the Cyclopes in Tartarus and set the monster Campe as its guard. Some myths also say he imprisoned the three Hecatonchires (giants with fifty heads and one hundred arms). Zeus killed Campe and released the Cyclopes and the Hecatonchires to aid in his conflict with the Titans. The gods of Olympus eventually defeated the Titans. Many but not all of the Titans were cast into Tartarus. Epimetheus, Metis, Prometheus, and most of the female Titans are examples of the Titans who were not banished to Tartarus. Cronus was imprisoned in Tartarus while Atlas was sentenced to hold the sky on his shoulders to prevent the sky and Earth from resuming their primordial embrace. Other gods could be sentenced to Tartarus as well. Apollo is a prime example, although Zeus freed him. In Tartarus, the Hecatonchires guarded prisoners. Later, when Zeus overcame the monster Typhon, the offspring of Tartarus and Gaia, he threw the monster into the same pit.

Originally, Tartarus was used only to confine dangers to the gods of Olympus. In later mythologies, Tartarus became the place where the punishment fits the crime. For example:

King Sisyphus was sent to Tartarus for killing guests and travelers to his castle in violation to his hospitality, seducing his niece, and reporting one of Zeus' sexual conquests by telling the river god Asopus of the whereabouts of his daughter Aegina (who had been taken away by Zeus). But regardless of the impropriety of Zeus' frequent conquests, Sisyphus overstepped his bounds by considering himself a peer of the gods who could rightfully report their indiscretions. When Zeus ordered Thanatos to chain up Sisyphus in Tartarus, Sisyphus tricked Thanatos by asking him how the chains worked and ended up chaining Thanatos; as a result there was no more death. This caused Ares to free Thanatos and turn Sisyphus over to him. Sometime later, Sisyphus had Persephone send him back to the surface to scold his wife for not burying him properly. Sisyphus was forcefully dragged back to Tartarus by Hermes when he refused to go back to the Underworld after that. In Tartarus, Sisyphus would be forced to roll a large boulder up a mountainside which when he almost reached the crest, rolled away from Sisyphus and rolled back down repeatedly. This represented the punishment of Sisyphus claiming that his cleverness surpassed that of Zeus, causing the god to make the boulder roll away from Sisyphus, binding Sisyphus to an eternity of frustration.
King Tantalus was also in Tartarus after he cut up his son Pelops, boiled him, and served him as food when he was invited to dine with the gods. He also stole the ambrosia from the Gods and told his people its secrets. Another story mentioned that he held onto a golden dog forged by Hephaestus and stolen by Tantalus' friend Pandareus. Tantalus held onto the golden dog for safekeeping and later denied to Pandareus that he had it. Tantalus's punishment for his actions (now a proverbial term for "temptation without satisfaction") was to stand in a pool of water beneath a fruit tree with low branches. Whenever he reached for the fruit, the branches raised his intended meal from his grasp. Whenever he bent down to get a drink, the water receded before he could get any. Over his head towered a threatening stone like that of Sisyphus.
Ixion was the king of the Lapiths, the most ancient tribe of Thessaly. Ixion grew to hate his father-in-law and ended up pushing him onto a bed of coal and woods committing the first kin-related murder. The princes of other lands ordered that Ixion be denied of any sin-cleansing. Zeus took pity on Ixion and invited him to a meal on Olympus. But when Ixion saw Hera, he fell in love with her and did some under-the-table caressing until Zeus signaled him to stop. After finding a place for Ixion to sleep, Zeus created a cloud-clone of Hera named Nephele to test him to see how much he loved Hera. Ixion made love to her, which resulted in the birth of Centaurus, who mated with some Magnesian mares on Mount Pelion and thus engendered the race of Centaurs (who are called the Ixionidae from their descent). Zeus drove Ixion from Mount Olympus and then struck him with a thunderbolt. He was punished by being tied to a winged flaming wheel that was always spinning: first in the sky and then in Tartarus. Only when Orpheus came down to the Underworld to rescue Eurydice did it stop spinning because of the music Orpheus was playing. Ixion being strapped to the flaming wheel represented his burning lust.
In some versions, the Danaides murdered their husbands and were punished in Tartarus by being forced to carry water in a jug to fill a bath which would thereby wash off their sins, but the jugs were actually sieves so the water always leaked out.[1]
The giant Tityos was slain by Apollo and Artemis after attempting to rape Leto on Hera's orders. As punishment, Tityos was stretched out in Tartarus and tortured by two vultures who fed on his liver. This punishment is extremely similar to that of the Titan Prometheus.
King Salmoneus was also mentioned to have been imprisoned in Tartarus after passing himself off as Zeus, causing the real Zeus to smite him with a thunderbolt.
According to Plato (c. 427 BC), Rhadamanthus, Aeacus and Minos were the judges of the dead and chose who went to Tartarus. Rhadamanthus judged Asian souls, Aeacus judged European souls and Minos was the deciding vote and judge of the Greek.

Plato also proposes the concept that sinners were cast under the ground to be punished in accordance with their sins in the Myth of Er. Cronus, the ruler of the Titans, was thrown down into the pits of Tartarus by his children.

There were a number of entrances to Tartarus in Greek mythology. One was in Aornum.[2]

[edit]Roman mythology

In Roman mythology, Tartarus is the place where sinners are sent. Virgil describes it in the Aeneid as a gigantic place, surrounded by the flaming river Phlegethon and triple walls to prevent sinners from escaping from it. It is guarded by a hydra with fifty black gaping jaws, which sits at a screeching gate protected by columns of solid adamantine, a substance akin to diamond - so hard that nothing will cut through it. Inside, there is a castle with wide walls, and a tall iron turret. Tisiphone, one of the Erinyes who represents revenge, stands guard sleepless at the top of this turret lashing a whip. There is a pit inside which is said to extend down into the earth twice as far as the distance from the lands of the living to Olympus. At the bottom of this pit lie the Titans, the twin sons of Aloeus, and many other sinners. Still more sinners are contained inside Tartarus, with punishments similar to those of Greek myth.

[edit]Biblical Pseudepigrapha

Tartarus is only known in Hellenistic Jewish literature from the Greek text of 1 Enoch, dated to 400–200 BC. This states that God placed the archangel Uriel "in charge of the world and of Tartarus" (20:2). Tartarus is generally understood to be the place where 200 fallen Watchers (angels) are imprisoned.[3]

[edit]New Testament

In the New Testament, the noun Tartarus does not occur but tartaroo (ταρταρόω, "throw to Tartarus"), a shortened form of the classical Greek verb kata-tartaroo ("throw down to Tartarus"), does appear in 2 Peter 2:4. Liddell Scott provides other sources for the shortened form of this verb, including Acusilaus (5th century BC), Joannes Laurentius Lydus (4th century AD) and the Scholiast on Aeschylus, Eumenides, who cites Pindar relating how the earth tried to tartaro "cast down" Apollo after he overcame the Python.[4] In classical texts, the longer form kata-tartaroo is often related to the throwing of the Titans down to Tartarus.[5]

The ESV is one of several English versions that gives the Greek reading Tartarus as a footnote:

For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell [1] and committed them to chains [2] of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment;"
Footnotes [1] 2:4 Greek Tartarus
Adam Clarke reasoned that Peter's use of language relating to the Titans was an indication that the ancient Greeks had heard of a Biblical punishment of fallen angels.[6] Some Evangelical Christian commentaries distinguish Tartarus as a place for wicked angels and Gehenna as a place for wicked humans on the basis of this verse.[7] Other Evangelical commentaries, in reconciling that some fallen angels are chained in Tartarus, yet some not, attempt to distinguish between one type of fallen angel and another.[8]

[edit]See also

Greek mythology in popular culture
Hades
Gehenna
Tzoah Rotachat
Hell
Sheol
The Golden Bough (mythology)
The tartaruchi of the non-canonical Apocalypse of Paul.

Virgil
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For other uses, see Virgil (disambiguation).
Publius Vergilius Maro

Depiction of Virgil, 3rd-century AD,[1]
"Monnus-Mosaic", Rheinisches Landesmuseum Trier
Born	October 15, 70 BC
Andes, Cisalpine Gaul, Roman Republic
Died	September 21, 19 BC (age 50)
Brundisium, Apulia, Roman Empire
Occupation	Poet
Nationality	Roman
Genres	Epic poetry, didactic poetry, pastoral poetry
Literary movement	Augustan poetry
Influences[show]
Influenced[show]
Publius Vergilius Maro (October 15, 70 BC – September 21, 19 BC), usually called Virgil or Vergil /ˈvɜrdʒəl/ in English, was an ancient Roman poet of the Augustan period. He is known for three major works of Latin literature, the Eclogues (or Bucolics), the Georgics, and the epic Aeneid. A number of minor poems, collected in the Appendix Vergiliana, are sometimes attributed to him.

Virgil is traditionally ranked as one of Rome's greatest poets. His Aeneid has been considered the national epic of ancient Rome from the time of its composition to the present day. Modeled after Homer's Iliad and Odyssey, the Aeneid follows the Trojan refugee Aeneas as he struggles to fulfill his destiny and arrive on the shores of Italy—in Roman mythology the founding act of Rome. Virgil's work has had wide and deep influence on Western literature, most notably the Divine Comedy of Dante, in which Virgil appears as Dante's guide through hell and purgatory.

Contents  [hide] 
1 Life and works
1.1 Birth and biographical tradition
1.2 Early works
1.3 The Eclogues
1.4 The Georgics
1.5 The Aeneid
1.6 Reception of the Aeneid
1.7 Virgil's death and editing of the Aeneid
2 Later views and reception
2.1 In antiquity
2.2 Late antiquity and Middle Ages
2.3 Mysticism and hidden meanings
2.4 Virgil's tomb
3 Name in English
4 References
5 Further reading
6 External links
[edit]Life and works

[edit]Birth and biographical tradition


A bust of Virgil in Naples
Virgil's biographical tradition is thought to depend on a lost biography by Varius, Virgil's editor, which was incorporated into the biography by Suetonius and the commentaries of Servius and Donatus, the two great commentators on Virgil's poetry. Although the commentaries no doubt record much factual information about Virgil, some of their evidence can be shown to rely on inferences made from his poetry and allegorizing; thus, Virgil's biographical tradition remains problematic.[2]

The tradition holds that Virgil was born in the village of Andes, near Mantua[3] in Cisalpine Gaul.[4] Scholars suggest Etruscan, Umbrian or even Celtic descent by examining the linguistic or ethnic markers of the region. Analysis of his name has led to beliefs that he descended from earlier Roman colonists. Modern speculation ultimately is not supported by narrative evidence either from his own writings or his later biographers. Macrobius says that Virgil's father was of a humble background; however, scholars generally believe that Virgil was from an equestrian landowning family which could afford to give him an education. He attended schools in Cremona, Mediolanum, Rome and Naples. After considering briefly a career in rhetoric and law, the young Virgil turned his talents to poetry.[5]

[edit]Early works
Main article: Appendix Vergiliana
According to the commentators, Virgil received his first education when he was five years old and he later went to Cremona, Milan, and finally Rome to study rhetoric, medicine, and astronomy, which he soon abandoned for philosophy. From Virgil's admiring references to the neoteric writers Pollio and Cinna, it has been inferred that he was, for a time, associated with Catullus' neoteric circle. However schoolmates considered Virgil extremely shy and reserved, according to Servius, and he was nicknamed "Parthenias" or "maiden" because of his social aloofness. Virgil seems to have suffered bad health throughout his life and in some ways lived the life of an invalid. According to the Catalepton, while in the Epicurean school of Siro the Epicurean at Naples, he began to write poetry. A group of small works attributed to the youthful Virgil by the commentators survive collected under the title Appendix Vergiliana, but are largely considered spurious by scholars. One, the Catalepton, consists of fourteen short poems,[6] some of which may be Virgil's, and another, a short narrative poem titled the Culex ("The Gnat"), was attributed to Virgil as early as the 1st century AD.

[edit]The Eclogues
Main article: Eclogues


Page from the Eclogues in the 5th-century Vergilius Romanus
The biographical tradition asserts that Virgil began the hexameter Eclogues (or Bucolics) in 42 BC and it is thought that the collection was published around 39–38 BC, although this is controversial.[6] The Eclogues (from the Greek for "selections") are a group of ten poems roughly modeled on the bucolic hexameter poetry ("pastoral poetry") of the Hellenistic poet Theocritus. After his victory in the Battle of Philippi in 42 BC, fought against the army led by the assassins of Julius Caesar, Octavian tried to pay off his veterans with land expropriated from towns in northern Italy, supposedly including, according to the tradition, an estate near Mantua belonging to Virgil. The loss of his family farm and the attempt through poetic petitions to regain his property have traditionally been seen as Virgil's motives in the composition of the Eclogues. This is now thought to be an unsupported inference from interpretations of the Eclogues. In Eclogues 1 and 9, Virgil indeed dramatizes the contrasting feelings caused by the brutality of the land expropriations through pastoral idiom, but offers no indisputable evidence of the supposed biographic incident. Readers often did and sometimes do identify the poet himself with various characters and their vicissitudes, whether gratitude by an old rustic to a new god (Ecl. 1), frustrated love by a rustic singer for a distant boy (his master's pet, Ecl. 2), or a master singer's claim to have composed several eclogues (Ecl. 5). Modern scholars largely reject such efforts to garner biographical details from fictive texts preferring instead to interpret the diverse characters and themes as representing the poet's own contrastive perceptions of contemporary life and thought. Thematically, the ten Eclogues develop and vary pastoral tropes and play with generic expectations. 1 and 9 address the land confiscations and their effects on the Italian countryside. 2 and 3 are highly pastoral and erotic, discussing love, both homosexual (Ecl. 2) and panerotic (Ecl. 3). Eclogue 4, addressed to Asinius Pollio, the so-called "Messianic Eclogue" uses the imagery of the golden-age in connection with the birth of a child (who the child is has been highly contested). 5 and 8 describe the myth of Daphnis in a song contest, 6, the cosmic and mythological song of Silenus, 7, a heated poetic contest, and 10 the sufferings of the contemporary elegiac poet Cornelius Gallus. Virgil is credited[by whom?] in the Eclogues with establishing Arcadia as a poetic ideal that still resonates in Western literature and visual arts and setting the stage for the development of Latin pastoral by Calpurnius Siculus, Nemesianus, and later writers.

[edit]The Georgics
Main article: Georgics
Sometime after the publication of the Eclogues (probably before 37 BC),[7] Virgil became part of the circle of Maecenas, Octavian's capable agent d'affaires who sought to counter sympathy for Antony among the leading families by rallying Roman literary figures to Octavian's side. Virgil seems to have made connections with many of the other leading literary figures of the time, including Horace, in whose poetry he is often mentioned,[8] and Varius Rufus, who later helped finish the Aeneid.



Late-17th-century illustration of a passage from the Georgics by Jerzy Siemiginowski-Eleuter
At Maecenas' insistence (according to the tradition) Virgil spent the ensuing years (perhaps 37–29 BC) on the longer didactic hexameter poem called the Georgics (from Greek, "On Working the Earth") which he dedicated to Maecenas. The ostensible theme of the Georgics is instruction in the methods of running a farm. In handling this theme, Virgil follows in the didactic (instructive) tradition of the Greek poet Hesiod's Works and Days and several works of the later Hellenistic poets. The four books of the Georgics focus respectively on raising crops and trees (1 and 2), livestock and horses (3), and beekeeping and the qualities of bees (4). Significant passages include the beloved Laus Italiae of Book 2, the prologue description of the temple in Book 3, and the description of the plague at the end of Book 3. Book 4 concludes with a long mythological narrative, in the form of an epyllion which describes vividly the discovery of beekeeping by Aristaeus and the story of Orpheus' journey to the underworld. Ancient scholars, such as Servius, conjectured that the Aristaeus episode replaced a long section in praise of Virgil's friend, the poet Gallus, who was disgraced by Augustus and committed suicide in 26 BC. Augustus is supposed to have ordered the section to be replaced.

A major critical issue in considering the Georgics is the assessment of tone; Virgil seems to waver between optimism and pessimism, sparking a great deal of debate on the poem's intentions.[9] With the Georgics Virgil is again credited with laying the foundations for later didactic poetry. The biographical tradition says that Virgil and Maecenas took turns reading the Georgics to Octavian upon his return from defeating Antony and Cleopatra at the Battle of Actium in 31 BC.

[edit]The Aeneid
Main article: Aeneid


A 1st-century terracotta expressing the pietas of Aeneas, who carries his aged father and leads his young son
The Aeneid is widely considered Virgil's finest work and one of the most important poems in the history of western literature. Virgil worked on the Aeneid during the last ten years of his life (29–19 BC), commissioned, according to Propertius, by Augustus.[10] The epic poem consists of 12 books in hexameter verse which describe the journey of Aeneas, a prince fleeing the sack of Troy, to Italy, his battle with the Italian prince Turnus, and the foundation of a city from which Rome would emerge. The Aeneid's first six books describe the journey of Aeneas from Troy to Rome. Virgil made use of several models in the composition of his epic;[7] Homer the preeminent classical epicist is everywhere present, but Virgil also makes especial use of the Latin poet Ennius and the Hellenistic poet Apollonius of Rhodes among the various other writers he alludes to. Although the Aeneid casts itself firmly into the epic mode, it often seeks to expand the genre by including elements of other genres such as tragedy and aetiological poetry. Ancient commentators noted that Virgil seems to divide the Aeneid into two sections based on the poetry of Homer; the first six books were viewed as employing the Odyssey as a model while the last six were connected to the Iliad.[11]

Book 1[12] (at the head of the Odyssean section) opens with a storm which Juno, Aeneas' enemy throughout the poem, stirs up against the fleet. The storm drives the hero to the coast of Carthage, which historically was Rome's deadliest foe. The queen, Dido, welcomes the ancestor of the Romans, and under the influence of the gods falls deeply in love with him. At a banquet in Book 2, Aeneas tells the story of the sack of Troy, the death of his wife, and his escape to the enthralled Carthaginians, while in Book 3 he recounts to them his wanderings over the Mediterranean in search of a suitable new home. Jupiter in Book 4 recalls the lingering Aeneas to his duty to found a new city, and he slips away from Carthage, leaving Dido to commit suicide, cursing Aeneas and calling down revenge in a symbolic anticipation of the fierce wars between Carthage and Rome. In Book 5, Aeneas' father Anchises dies and funeral games are celebrated for him. On reaching Cumae, in Italy in Book 6, Aeneas consults the Cumaean Sibyl, who conducts him through the Underworld where Aeneas meets the dead Anchises who reveals his Rome's destiny to his son.

Book 7 (beginning the Iliadic half) opens with an address to the muse and recounts Aeneas arrival in Italy and betrothal to Lavinia, daughter of King Latinus. Lavinia had already been promised to Turnus, the king of the Rutulians, who is roused to war by the Fury Allecto and Amata Lavinia's mother. In Book 8, Aeneas allies with King Evander, who occupies the future site of Rome, and is given new armor and a shield depicting Roman history. Book 9 records an assault by Nisus and Euryalus on the Rutulians, 10, the death of Evander's young son Pallas, and 11 the death of the Volscian warrior princess Camilla and the decision to settle the war with a duel between Aeneas and Turnus. The Aeneid ends in Book 12 with the taking of Latinus' city, the death of Amata, and Aeneas' defeat and killing of Turnus, whose pleas for mercy are spurned.

[edit]Reception of the Aeneid


Virgil Reading the Aeneid to Augustus, Octavia, and Livia by Jean-Baptiste Wicar, Art Institute of Chicago
Critics of the Aeneid focus on a variety of issues.[13] The tone of the poem as a whole is a particular matter of debate; some see the poem as ultimately pessimistic and politically subversive to the Augustan regime, while others view it as a celebration of the new imperial dynasty. Virgil makes use of the symbolism of the Augustan regime, and some scholars see strong associations between Augustus and Aeneas, the one as founder and the other as re-founder of Rome. A strong teleology, or drive towards a climax, has been detected in the poem. The Aeneid is full of prophecies about the future of Rome, the deeds of Augustus, his ancestors, and famous Romans, and the Carthaginian Wars; the shield of Aeneas even depicts Augustus' victory at Actium against Mark Antony and Cleopatra VII in 31 BC. A further focus of study is the character of Aeneas. As the protagonist of the poem, Aeneas seems to constantly waver between his emotions and commitment to his prophetic duty to found Rome; critics note the breakdown of Aeneas' emotional control in the last sections of the poem where the "pious" and "righteous" Aeneas mercilessly slaughters Turnus.

The Aeneid appears to have been a great success. Virgil is said to have recited Books 2, 4, and 6 to Augustus;[7] and Book 6 apparently caused Augustus' sister Octavia to faint. Although the truth of this claim is subject to scholarly scepticism, it has served as a basis for later art, such as Jean-Baptiste Wicar's Virgil Reading the Aeneid.

Unfortunately, some lines of the poem were left unfinished, and the whole was unedited, at Virgil's death in 19 BC.

[edit]Virgil's death and editing of the Aeneid
According to the tradition, Virgil traveled to Greece around 19 BC in order to revise the Aeneid. After meeting Augustus in Athens and deciding to return home, Virgil caught a fever while visiting a town near Megara. After crossing to Italy by ship, weakened with disease, Virgil died in Brundisium harbour on September 21, 19 BC. Augustus ordered Virgil's literary executors, Lucius Varius Rufus and Plotius Tucca, to disregard Virgil's own wish that the poem be burned, instead ordering it published with as few editorial changes as possible.[14] As a result, the text of the Aeneid that exists may contain faults which Virgil was planning to correct before publication. However, the only obvious imperfections are a few lines of verse that are metrically unfinished (i.e., not a complete line of dactylic hexameter). Other alleged imperfections are subject to scholarly debate.

[edit]Later views and reception

[edit]In antiquity


A 3rd-century Tunisian mosaic of Virgil seated between Clio and Melpomene (from Hadrumetum [Sousse])[15]
The works of Virgil almost from the moment of their publication revolutionized Latin poetry. The Eclogues, Georgics, and above all the Aeneid became standard texts in school curricula with which all educated Romans were familiar. Poets following Virgil often refer intertextually to his works to generate meaning in their own poetry. The Augustan poet Ovid parodies the opening lines of the Aeneid in Amores 1.1.1–2, and his summary of the Aeneas story in Book 14 of the Metamorphoses, the so-called "mini-Aeneid", has been viewed as a particularly important example of post-Virgilian response to the epic genre. Lucan's epic, the Bellum Civile has been considered an anti-Virgilian epic, disposing with the divine mechanism, treating historical events, and diverging drastically from Virgilian epic practice. The Flavian poet Statius in his 12-book epic Thebaid engages closely with the poetry of Virgil; in his epilogue he advises his poem not to "rival the divine Aeneid, but follow afar and ever venerate its footsteps."[16] In Silius Italicus, Virgil finds one of his most ardent admirers. With almost every line of his epic Punica Silius references Virgil. Indeed, Silius is known to have bought Virgil's tomb and worshipped the poet.[17] Partially as a result of his so-called "Messianic" Fourth Eclogue—widely interpreted later to have predicted the birth of Jesus Christ—Virgil was in later antiquity imputed to have the magical abilities of a seer; the sortes Virgilianae, the process of using Virgil's poetry as a tool of divination, is found in the time of Hadrian, and continued into the Middle Ages. In a similar vein Macrobius in the Saturnalia credits the work of Virgil as the embodiment of human knowledge and experience, mirroring the Greek conception of Homer.[18] Virgil also found commentators in antiquity. Servius, a commentator of the 4th century AD, based his work on the commentary of Donatus. Servius' commentary provides us with a great deal of information about Virgil's life, sources, and references; however, many modern scholars find the variable quality of his work and the often simplistic interpretations frustrating.

[edit]Late antiquity and Middle Ages
	This section does not cite any references or sources. (June 2012)


A 5th-century portrait of Virgil from the Vergilius Romanus
Even as the Western Roman empire collapsed, literate men acknowledged that Virgil was a master poet. Gregory of Tours read Virgil, whom he quotes in several places, along with some other Latin poets, though he cautions that "we ought not to relate their lying fables, lest we fall under sentence of eternal death."

The Aeneid remained the central Latin literary text of the Middle Ages and retained its status as the grand epic of the Latin peoples, and of those who considered themselves to be of Roman provenance, such as the English. It also held religious importance as it describes the founding of a "Holy City".[citation needed]

Virgil's fourth Eclogue was often seen as a prophecy of the coming of Jesus Christ. It has been argued[citation needed] that this originated in a need on the part of medieval scholars to reconcile Virgil's non-Christian background with the high regard in which they held his works, who were thus forced to make him a prophet of sorts. This view is defended by a few scholars today, notably Richard Thomas (see below, under links). Cicero and other classical writers too were declared Christian due to similarities in moral thinking to Christianity.[citation needed]

Dante made Virgil his guide in Hell and the greater part of Purgatory in The Divine Comedy. Dante also mentions Virgil in De vulgari eloquentia, along with Ovid, Lucan and Statius, as one of the four regulati poetae (ii, vi, 7).

The best-known surviving manuscripts of Virgil's works include the Vergilius Augusteus, the Vergilius Vaticanus and the Vergilius Romanus.

[edit]Mysticism and hidden meanings
In the Middle Ages, Virgil was considered a herald of Christianity for his Eclogue 4 verses concerning the birth of a boy, which were read as a prophecy of Jesus' nativity.

Also during the Middle Ages, as Virgil was developed into a kind of magus, manuscripts of the Aeneid were used for divinatory bibliomancy, the Sortes Virgilianae (Virgilian lottery), in which a line would be selected at random and interpreted in the context of a current situation (Compare the ancient Chinese I Ching). The Old Testament was sometimes used for similar arcane purposes.

[edit]Virgil's tomb


The verse inscription at Virgil's tomb was supposedly composed by the poet himself: Mantua me genuit, Calabri rapuere, tenet nunc Parthenope. Cecini pascua, rura, duces ("Mantua bore me, the Calabrians snatched me away, now Naples holds me. I sang of pastures, countrysides, leaders")
The structure known as "Virgil's tomb" is found at the entrance of an ancient Roman tunnel (also known as "grotta vecchia") in the Parco di Virgilio in Piedigrotta, a district two miles from old Naples, near the Mergellina harbor, on the road heading north along the coast to Pozzuoli. (The site called Parco Virgiliano is some distance further west along the coast.) While Virgil was already the object of literary admiration and veneration before his death, in the following centuries his name became associated with miraculous powers, his tomb the destination of pilgrimages and veneration. The poet himself was said to have created the cave with the fierce power of his intense gaze.[citation needed]

It is said that the Chiesa della Santa Maria di Piedigrotta was erected by Church authorities to neutralize this adoration and "Christianize" the site. The tomb, however, is a tourist attraction, and still sports a tripod burner originally dedicated to Apollo, although the tripod is not original to the site.[citation needed]

[edit]Name in English

In the Late Empire and Middle Ages Vergilius was spelled Virgilius. Two explanations are commonly given for this alteration. One deduces a false etymology associated with the word virgo ("maiden" in Latin) due to Virgil's excessive, "maiden"-like (parthenías or παρθενίας in Greek), modesty. Alternatively, some argue that Vergilius was altered to Virgilius by analogy with the Latin virga ("wand") due to the magical or prophetic powers attributed to Virgil in the Middle Ages (this explanation is found in only a handful of manuscripts, however, and was probably not widespread). In Norman schools (following the French practice), the habit was to anglicize Latin names by dropping their Latin endings, hence Virgil. In the 19th century, some German-trained classicists in the United States suggested modification to Vergil, as it is closer to his original name, and is also the traditional German spelling.[citation needed] Modern usage permits both, though the Oxford guide to style recommends Vergilius to avoid confusion with the 8th-century grammarian Virgilius Maro Grammaticus. Some post-Renaissance writers liked to affect the sobriquet "The Swan of Mantua".[citation needed]


Wyrd is a concept in Anglo-Saxon culture roughly corresponding to fate or personal destiny. The word is ancestral to Modern English weird, which retains its original meaning only dialectically.

The cognate term in Old Norse is urðr, with a similar meaning, but also personalized as one of the Norns, Urðr (anglicized as Urd) and appearing in the name of the holy well Urðarbrunnr in Norse mythology. The concept corresponding to "fate, doom, fortunes" in Old Norse is Ørlǫg (cf. Dutch oorlog 'war').

Contents  [hide] 
1 Etymology
2 Fate in Germanic mythology
3 References
4 See also
[edit]Etymology

The Old English term wyrd derives from a Common Germanic term *wurđíz. Wyrd has cognates in Old Saxon wurd, Old High German wurt, Old Norse urðr, Dutch worden (to become) and German werden. The Proto-Indo-European root is *wert- "to turn, rotate", in Common Germanic *wirþ- with a meaning "to come to pass, to become, to be due" (also in weorþ, the notion of "worth" both in the sense of "price, value, amount due" and "honour, dignity, due esteem").

Old English wyrd is a verbal noun formed from the verb weorþan, meaning "to come to pass, to become". The term developed into the modern English adjective weird. Adjectival use develops in the 15th century, in the sense "having the power to control fate", originally in the name of the Weird Sisters, i.e. the classical Fates, in the Elizabethan period detached from their classical background as fays, and most notably appearing as the Three Witches in Shakespeare's Macbeth. From the 14th century, to weird was also used as a verb in Scots, in the sense of "to preordain by decree of fate".

The modern spelling weird first appears in Scottish and Northern English dialects in the 16th century and is taken up in standard literary English from the 17th century. The regular modern English form would have been wird, from Early Modern English werd. The substitution of werd by weird in the northern dialects is "difficult to account for".[1]

The now most common meaning of weird, "odd, strange", is first attested in 1815, originally with a connotation of the supernatural or portentuous (especially in the collocation weird and wonderful), but by the early 20th century increasingly applied to everyday situations.[2]

[edit]Fate in Germanic mythology

Main article: Norns
Wyrd is a feminine noun, and its Norse cognate urðr, besides meaning "fate", is the name of one of the Norns; urðr is literally "that which has come to pass", verðandi is "what is in the process of happening" (the present participle of the verb cognate to weorþan) and skuld "debt, guilt" (from a Germanic root *skul- "to owe", also found in English shall).

Between themselves, the Norns weave fate or ørlǫg (from ór "out, from, beyond" and lǫg "law", and may be interpreted literally as "beyond law"). According to Voluspa 20, the three Norns "set up the laws", "decided on the lives of the children of time" and "promulgate their ørlǫg". Frigg, on the other hand, while she "knows all ørlǫg", "says it not herself" (Lokasenna 30). ørlǫglausa "ørlǫg-less" occurs in Voluspa 17 in reference to driftwood, that is given breath, warmth and spirit by three gods, to create the first humans, Ask ("Ash") and Embla (possibly "Elm").

Mentions of wyrd in Old English literature include The Wanderer, "Wyrd bið ful aræd" ("Fate remains wholly inexorable") and Beowulf, "Gæð a wyrd swa hio scel!" ("Fate goes ever as she shall!").

Moirai
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


The three Moirai. Relief, grave of Alexander von der Mark by Johann Gottfried Schadow. Old National Gallery, Berlin
Greek deities
series
Primordial deities
Titans and Olympians
Aquatic deities
Chthonic deities
Other deities
Personified concepts
Apate
Atë
Bia
Charites
Eris
Eros
Harmonia
Horae
Hypnos
Kratos
Metis
Mnemosyne
Moirai
Morpheus
Nemesis
Nike
Thanatos
Themis
Zelos
In Greek mythology, the Moirai (Ancient Greek: Μοῖραι, "apportioners", Latinized as Moerae)—often known in English as the Fates—were the white-robed incarnations of destiny (Roman equivalent: Parcae, euphemistically the "sparing ones", or Fata; also equivalent to the Germanic Norns). Their number became fixed at three: Clotho (spinner), Lachesis (allotter) and Atropos (unturnable).

They controlled the metaphorical thread of life of every mortal from birth to death. They were independent, at the helm of necessity, directed fate, and watched that the fate assigned to every being by eternal laws might take its course without obstruction. The gods and men had to submit to them, but in the case of Zeus he is portrayed in two ways: as the only one who can command them (the Zeus Moiragetes) or as the one who is also bound to the Moiras as incarnation of the fates.[1] In the Homeric poems Moira or Aisa, is related with the limit and end of life, and Zeus appears as the guider of destiny. In the Theogony of Hesiod, the three Moirai are personified, and are acting over the gods.[2] Later they are daughters of Zeus and Themis, who was the embodiment of divine order and law. In Plato's Republic the Three Fates are daughters of Ananke (necessity).[3]

It seems that Moira is related with Tekmor (proof, ordinance) and with Ananke, who were primeval goddesses in mythical cosmogonies. The ancient Greek writers might call this power Moira or Ananke, and even the gods could not alter what was ordained.[4] The concept of a universal principle of natural order, has been compared with similar concepts in other cultures like the Vedic Rta, the Avestan Asha (Arta) and the Egyptian Maat.

In earliest Greek philosophy, the cosmogony of Anaximander is based on these mythical beliefs. The goddess Dike (justice, divine retribution), keeps the order and sets a limit to any actions.[5]

Contents  [hide] 
1 Etymology
2 The three Moirai
3 Origins
4 The Homeric Moira
5 Mythical cosmogonies
6 Mythology
7 Zeus and the Moirai
8 Cross-cultural parallels
8.1 Europe
8.2 Orient
9 See also
10 Notes
11 References
12 External links
[edit]Etymology

The Ancient Greek word moira (μοίρα) means a portion or lot of the whole, and is related to meros, "part, lot" and moros, "fate, doom",[6] Latin meritum, "desert, reward", English merit, derived from the PIE root *(s)mer, "to allot, assign".[7]

Moira may mean portion or share on the distribution of booty (ίση μοίρα, isi moira, "equal booty"),[8] portion in life, lot, destiny, (μοίρα έθηκαν αθάνατοι, moiran ethikan athanatoi, "the immortals fixed the destiny")[9] death -moros- (μοίρα θανάτοιο, moira thanatoio, " destiny of death"), portion of the distributed land.,[10] The word is also used for something which is meet and right (κατά μοίραν, kata moiran, "according to fate, in order, rightly")[11]

It seems that originally the word moira did not indicate the destiny but included the ascertainment or proof. The word daemon, which was an agent related with unexpected events, came to be similar with the word moira.[12] This agent or cause against human control might be also called tyche (chance, fate): "You mistress moira, and tyche, and my daemon "[13]

The word nomos, "law", may have meant originally a portion or lot, as in the verb nemein, "to distribute", and thus "natural lot" came to mean "natural law".[14] The word dike, "justice", conveyed the notion that someone should stay within his own specified boundaries, respecting the ones of his neighbour. If someone broke his boundaries, thus getting more than his ordained part, then he would be punished by law. By extension moira was one's portion or part in destiny which consisted of good and bad moments as it was predetermined by the Moirai (Fates), and it was impossible for anyone to get more than his ordained part. In modern Greek the word came to mean "destiny" (μοίρα or ειμαρμένη).

Kismet, the predetermined course of events in Muslim religion seems to have a similar etymology and function. It means Fate or destiny in the Indo-Aryan Urdu language. In Persian qesmat, in Arabic qisma, "lot", derived from qasama, "to divide, allot".



The three Moirai, or the triumph of death, Flemish tapestry ca 1520, Victoria and Albert Museum, London.
[edit]The three Moirai

When they were three,[15] the three Moirai were:

Clotho ( /ˈkloʊθoʊ/, Greek Κλωθώ [klɔːˈtʰɔː] – "spinner") spun the thread of life from her distaff onto her spindle. Her Roman equivalent was Nona, (the 'Ninth'), who was originally a goddess called upon in the ninth month of pregnancy.
Lachesis ( /ˈlækɨsɪs/, Greek Λάχεσις [ˈlakʰesis] – "allotter" or drawer of lots) measured the thread of life allotted to each person with her measuring rod. Her Roman equivalent was Decima (the 'Tenth').
Atropos ( /ˈætrəpɒs/, Greek Ἄτροπος [ˈatropos] – "inexorable" or "inevitable", literally "unturning",[16] sometimes called Aisa) was the cutter of the thread of life. She chose the manner of each person's death; and when their time was come, she cut their life-thread with "her abhorred shears".[17] Her Roman equivalent was Morta ('Death').
In the Republic of Plato, the three Moirai sing in unison with the music of the Seirenes. Lachesis sings the things that were, Clotho the things that are, and Atropos the things that are to be.[18] Pindar in his Hymn to the Fates, holds them in high honour. He calls them to send their sisters Hours, Eunomia (Lawfulness), Dike (Right), and Eirene (Peace), to stop the internal civil strife:

Listen Fates, who sit nearest of gods to the throne of Zeus, and weave with shuttles of adamant, inescapable devices for councels of every kind beyond counting, Aisa, Clotho and Lachesis, fine-armed daughters of Night, hearken to our prayers, all-terrible goddesses, of sky and earth. Send us rose-bossomed Lawfulness, and her sisters on glittering thrones, Right and crowned Peace, and make this city forget the misfortunes which lie heavily on her heart.[19]

[edit]Origins

In ancient times caves were used for burial purposes in eastern Mediterranean, in conjunction with underground shrines or temples. The priests and the priestesses exerted considerable influence upon the world of the living. Births are also recorded in such shrines, and the Greek legend of conception and birth in the tomb – as in the story of Danae- is based on the ancient belief that the dead know the future. Such caves were the caves of Ida and Dikte mountains in Crete, where myth situates the birth of Zeus and other gods, and the cave of Eileithyia near Knossos.[20] The relative Minoan goddesses were named Diktynna (later identified with Artemis), who was a mountain nymph of hunting, and Eileithyia who was the goddess of childbirth.[21]

It seems that in Pre-Greek religion Aisa was a daemon. In Mycenean religion Aisa or Moira was originally an abstract power related with the limit and end of life. At the moment of birth she spins the destiny, because birth ordains death.[22] Later Aisa is not alone, but she is accompanied by the "Spinners", who are the personifications of Fate.[23] The act of spinning is also associated with the gods, who at birth and at marriage don’t spin the thread of life, but single facts like destruction, return or good fortune. Everything which has been spun must be winded on the spindle, and this was considered a cloth, like a net or loop which captured man.[24]

Invisible bonds and knots could be controlled from a loom, and twining was a magic art used by the magicians to harm a person, and control his individual fate.[25] Some similar ideas appear in Norse mythology,[26] and in Greek folklore. The appearance of the gods and the Moirai may be related with the fairy tale motif, which is common in many Indo-European sagas, and also in Greek folklore. The fairies appear besides the cradle of the newborn child, and bring gifts to him.[27]

The services of the temples were performed by old women who were physically misshapen, though intellectually superior persons, giving rise to the fear of witches and of the mishappen. They might be considered representations of the Moirai, who belonged to the underworld, but secretly guided the lives of those in the upperworld. Their power could be sustained by witchcraft and oracles.[20] In Greek mythology the Moirai at birth are accompanied by Eileithyia. At the birth of Hercules they use together a magic art, to free the newborn from any "bonds" and "knots".[25]

[edit]The Homeric Moira



An 1886 bas-relief figure of Dike Astraea in the Old Supreme Court Chamber at the Vermont State House.
Much of the Mycenean religion survived into classical Greece, but it is not known to what extent Greek religious belief is Mycenean, nor how much is a product of the Greek Dark Ages or later. M.Finley detected only few authentic Mycenean beliefs in the eighth-century Homeric world.[28] The religion which later the Greeks considered Hellenic embodies a paradox. Though the world is dominated by a divine power bestowed in different ways on men, nothing but "darkness" lay ahead. Life was frail and unsubstantial, and man was like a shadow in a dream.[29]

In the Homeric poems the words moira, aisa, moros mean "portion, part". Originally they didn’t indicate a power which leaded destiny, and must be considered to include the "ascertainment" or "proof". By extension Moira is the portion in glory, happiness, mishappenings, death (μοίρα θανάτοιο: destiny of death) which are unexpected events. The unexpected events were usually attributed to daemons, who appeared in special occurrences. In that regard Moira was later considered an agent, like the daemon of Pre-Greek religion.[30]

People believed that their portion in destiny was something similar with their portion in boote, which was distributed according to their descent, and traditional rules. It was possible to get more than their ordained portion (moira), but they had to face severe consequences because their action was "over moira" (υπέρ μοίραν:over the portion). It may be considered that they "broke the order". The most certain order in human lives is that every human should die, and this was determined by Aisa or Moira at the moment of birth.[22] The Myceneans believed that what comes should come (fatalism), and this was considered rightly offered (according to fate: in order). If someone died in battle, he would exist like a shadow in the gloomy space of the underworld.[30]

The kingdom of Moira is the kingdom of the limit and the end. In a passage in Iliad, Apollo tries three times to stop Patroclus in front of the walls of Troy, warning him that it is "over his portion" to sack the city. Aisa (moira) seems to set a limit on the most vigorous men's actions.[31]

Moira is a power acting in parallel with the gods, and even they could not change the destiny which was predetermined. In Iliad Zeus knows that his dearest Sarpedon will be killed by Patroclus, but he cannot save him.[32] In the famous scene of Kerostasia, Zeus the chief-deity of the Myceneans appears as the guider of destiny. Using a pair of scales he decides that Hector must die, according to his aisa (destiny).[33] His decision seems to be independent from his will, and is not related with any "moral purpose". His attitude is explained by Achilleus to Priam, in a parable of two jars at the door of Zeus, one of which contains good things, and the other evil. Zeus gives a mixture to some men, to others only evil and such are driven by hunger over the earth. This was the old "heroic outlook".[34]

The personification of Moira appears in the newer parts of the epos. In Odyssey she is accompanied by the "Spinners", the personifications of Fate, who don’t have separate names.[23] Moira seems to spin the predetermined course of events. Agamemnon claims that he is not responsible for his arrogance. He took the prize of Achilleus, because Zeus and Moira predetermined his decision.[35] In the last section of Iliad, Moira is the "mighty fate" (μοίρα κραταιά:moira krataia) who leads destiny and the course of events. Thetis the mother of Achilleus warns him that he will not live long because mighty fate stands hard by him, therefore he must give to Priam the corpse of Hector.[36] At Hector’s birth mighty fate predetermined that his corpse would be devoured by dogs after his death, and Hecabe is crying desperately asking for revenge.[37]

[edit]Mythical cosmogonies

In Theogony, Hesiod (7 th century BC) uses a lot of eastern material in his cosmology. The origin of all things is Chaos, which is formless and void, and represents disorder. Zeus establishes his order on the world, destroying the powers which are threatening order and harmony.[38]

The three Moirai are daughters of the primeval goddess Nyx (Night), and sisters of Keres (black Fates), Thanatos (Death) and Nemesis (Indignation).[2] Later they are daughters of Zeus and the Titaness Themis (the "Institutor"),[39] who was the embodiment of divine order and law.[40][41] and sisters of Eunomia (lawfulness, order), Dike (Justice), and Eirene (Peace)[39]

Hesiod introduces a moral purpose which is absent in the Homeric poems. The Moirai represent a power to which even the gods have to conform. They give men at birth both evil and good moments, and they punish not only men but also gods for their sins.[2]

In the cosmogony of Alcman (7 th century BC), first came Thetis (Disposer, Creation), and then simultaneously Poros (path) and Tekmor (end post, ordinance).[42][43] Poros is related with the beginning of all things, and Tekmor is related with the end of all things.[44]

Later in the Orphic cosmogony, first came Thesis (Disposer), whose ineflable nature is unexpressed. Ananke (necessity) is the primeval goddess of inevitability who is entwined with the time-god Chronos, at the very beginning of time. They represented the cosmic forces of Fate and Time, and they were called sometimes to control the fates of the gods. The three Moirai are daughters of Ananke.[45]

[edit]Mythology



Prometheus creates man. Clotho and Lachesis besides Poseidon (with his trident), and presumably Atropos besides Artemis (with the moon crescent). Roman sarcophagus, Louvre.
The Moirai were described as ugly old women, sometimes lame. They were severe, inflexible and stern. Clotho carries a spindle or a roll (the book of fate), Lachesis a staff with which she points to the horoscope on a globe, and Atropos (Aisa) a scroll, a wax tablet, a sundial, a pair of scales, or a cutting instrument. At other times the three were shown with staffs or sceptres, the symbols of dominion, and sometimes even with crowns. At the birth of each man they appeared spinning, measuring, and cutting the thread of life.[46]

The Moirai were supposed to appear three nights after a child's birth to determine the course of its life, as in the story of Meleager and the firebrand taken from the hearth and preserved by his mother to extend his life.[47] Bruce Karl Braswell from readings in the lexicon of Hesychius, associates the appearance of the Moirai at the family hearth on the seventh day with the ancient Greek custom of waiting seven days after birth to decide whether to accept the infant into the Gens and to give it a name, cemented with a ritual at the hearth.[48] At Sparta the temple to the Moirai stood near the communal hearth of the polis, as Pausanias observed.[49]

As goddesses of birth who even prophesized the fate of the newly born, Eileithyia the ancient Minoan goddess of childbirth and divine midwifery was their companion.Pausanias mentions an ancient role of Eileythia as "the clever spinner", relating her with destiny too.[50] Their appearance indicate the Greek desire for health which was connected with the Greek cult of the body that was essentially a religious activity.[51]

The 'Moirai assigned to the terrible chthonic goddesses Erinyes who inflicted the punishment for evil deads their proper functions, and with them directed fate according to necessity.As goddesses of death they appeared together with the daemons of death Keres and the infernal Erinyes.[46]



Bas relief of Lachesis. Base of a lampstand in front of the Supreme Court of the United States, Washington, D.C..
In earlier times they were represented as only a few – perhaps only one – individual goddess. Homer's Iliad (xxiv.209) speaks generally of the Moira, who spins the thread of life for men at their birth; she is Moira Krataia "powerful Moira" (xvi.334) or there are several Moirai (xxiv.49). In the Odyssey (vii.197) there is a reference to the Klôthes, or Spinners. At Delphi, only the Fates of Birth and Death were revered.[52] In Athens, Aphrodite, who had an earlier, pre-Olympic existence, was called Aphrodite Urania the 'eldest of the Fates' according to Pausanias (x.24.4).


Some Greek mythographers went so far as to claim that the Moirai were the daughters of Zeus— paired with Themis ("Fundament"), as Hesiod had it in one passage,[53] In the older myths they are daughters of primeval beings like Nyx ("Night") in Theogony, or Ananke ("Necessity") in Orphic cosmogony. Whether or not providing a father even for the Moirai was a symptom of how far Greek mythographers were willing to go, in order to modify the old myths to suit the patrilineal Olympic order,[54] the claim of a paternity was certainly not acceptable to Aeschylus, Herodotus, or Plato.

Despite their forbidding reputation, Moirai could be placated as goddesses. Brides in Athens offered them locks of hair and women swore by them. They may have originated as birth-goddesses and only later acquired their reputation as the agents of destiny.

While the Moirai were feared even by the formidable Olympians, including Zeus, they could still be defeated in battle as proven in the Gigantomachy where the Giants fought against the combined forces of the Gods, the Moirai and Heracles. Though the Moirai did kill the Giants Agrios and Thoon with their bronze clubs, a prophecy detailed a victory for the Giants should Heracles not fight alongside the Olympians.[55]

[edit]Zeus and the Moirai



Bas relief of Atropos cutting the thread of life
In the Homeric poems Moira, who is almost always one, is acting independently from the gods. Only Zeus, the chief sky-deity of the Myceneans is close to Moira, and in a passage he is the personification of this abstract power.[30] Using a weighing scale (balance) Zeus weighs Hector's "lot of death" (Ker) against the one of Achilleus. Hector's lot weighs down, and he dies according to Fate. Zeus appears as the guider of destiny, who gives everyone the right portion.[56][57]

In a Mycenean vase, Zeus holds a weighing scale (balance) in front of two warriors, indicating that he is measuring their destiny before the battle. The belief (fatalism) was that if they die in battle, they must die, and this was rightly offered (according to fate).[58]

In Theogony the three Moirai are daughters of the primeval goddess, Nyx ("Night"),[59] representing a power acting over the gods.[2] Later they are daughters of Zeus who gives them the greatest honour, and Themis, the ancient goddess of law and divine order.[40][41]



Bas relief of Clotho. Base of a lampstand in front of the Supreme Court of the United States, Washington
Even the gods feared the Moirai or Fates, which according to Herodotus a god couldn't escape.[60] The Pythian priestess at Delphi once admitted, that Zeus was also subject to their power, though no classic writing clarifies as to what exact extent the lives of immortals were affected by the whims of the Fates. It is to be expected that the relationship of Zeus and the Moirai was not immutable over the centuries. In either case in antiquity we can see a feeling towards a notion of an order to which even the gods have to conform. Simonides names this power Ananke (necessity) (the mother of the Moirai in Orphic cosmogony) and says that even the gods don't fight against it.[61] Aeschylus combines Fate and necessity in a scheme, and claims that even Zeus cannot alter which is ordained.[4]

A supposed epithet Zeus Moiragetes, meaning "Zeus Leader of the Moirai" was inferred by Pausanias from an inscription he saw in the 2nd century AD at Olympia: "As you go to the starting-point for the chariot-race there is an altar with an inscription to the Bringer of Fate.[62] This is plainly a surname of Zeus, who knows the affairs of men, all that the Fates give them, and all that is not destined for them."[63] At the Temple of Zeus at Megara, Pausanias inferred from the relief sculptures he saw "Above the head of Zeus are the Horai and Moirai, and all may see that he is the only god obeyed by Moira." Pausanias' inferred assertion is unsupported in cult practice, though he noted a sanctuary of the Moirai there at Olympia (v.15.4), and also at Corinth (ii.4.7) and Sparta (iii.11.8), and adjoining the sanctuary of Themis outside a city gate of Thebes[64]

[edit]Cross-cultural parallels

[edit]Europe


The Norns spin the threads of fate at the foot of Yggdrasil, the tree of the world.
In Roman mythology the three Moirai are the Parcae or Fata, plural of "fatum" meaning prophetic declaration, oracle, or destiny. The English words fate (native wyrd ) and fairy (magic, enchantment), are both derived from "fata", "fatum" .[65]

In Norse mythology the Norns are female beings who rule the destiny of gods and men, twining the thread of life. They set up the laws and decided on the lives of children of time .[66] Their names were Urðr (that which became or happened) related with Wyrd, weird (fate), Verðandi (that which is happening)[67] and Skuld (that which should become, debt, guilt).[68]

In younger legendary sagas, the Norns appear to have been synonymous with witches (Völvas),, and they arrive at the birth of the hero to shape his destiny. It seems that originally all of them were Disir, ghosts or deities associated with destruction and destiny. The idea that they were three, their distinction and association with the past, present and future may be due to a late influence from Greek and Roman mythology.[69]

The Valkyries (choosers of the slain), were originally daemons of death. They were female figures who decided who will die in battle, and brought their chosen to the afterlife hall of the slain. They were also related with spinning, and one of them was named Skuld (debt, guilt).[70] They may be related to Keres, the daemons of death in Greek mythology, who accompanied the dead to the entrance of Hades. In the scene of Kerostasie Keres are the "lots of death", and in some cases Ker (destruction) has the same meaning with Moira interpreted as "destiny of death" (moira thanatoio :μοίρα θανάτοιο) .[2][71]

The Germanic Matres and Matrones, female deities almost entirely in a group of three, have been proposed as connected to the Norns and the Valkyries.[72]



Macbeth and Banquo meeting the three weird sisters in a woodcut from Holinshed's Chronicles.
In Anglo-Saxon culture Wyrd (Weird) is a concept corresponding to fate or personal destiny (literally: what befalls one). Its Norse cognate is Urðr, and both names are deriven from the PIE root wert, "to turn, wind",[73] related with "spindle, distaff".[74] In Old English literature Wyrd goes ever as she shall, and remains wholly inevitable.[75][76]

In Macbeth the Weird sisters (or Three Witches), are prophetesses, who are deeply entrenched in both worlds of reality and supernatural. Their creation was influenced by British folklore, witchcraft, and the legends of the Norns and the Moirai.[77] Hecate, the chthonic Greek goddess associated with magic, witchcraft, necromancy, and three-way crossroads,[78] appears as the master of the "Three witches". In Ancient Greek religion, Hecate as goddess of childbirth is identified with Artemis,[79] who was the leader (ηγεμόνη: hegemone ) of the nymphs.[80]

In the Lithuanian mythology Laima is the personification of destiny, and her most important duty was to prophecy how the life of a newborn will take place. She may be related to the Hindu goddessLaksmi, who was the personification of wealth and prosperity, and associated with good fortune.[81][82] In the Latvian mythology, Laima and her sisters were a trinity of fate deities.[83]

The Moirai were usually described as cold, remorseless and unfeeling, and depicted as old crones or hags. The independent spinster has always inspired fear rather than matrimony: "this sinister connotation we inherit from the spinning goddess," write Ruck and Staples (Ruck and Staples 1994:). See weaving (mythology).

[edit]Orient


A section of the Egyptian Book of the Dead written on papyrus showing the "Weighing of the Heart" in the Duat using the feather of Maat as the measure in balance.
The notion of a universal principle of natural order has been compared to similar ideas in other cultures, such as aša, (Asha) in Avestan religion, Rta in Vedic religion, and Maat in Ancient Egyptian religion.[84]

In the Avestan religion and Zoroastrianism, aša, is commonly summarized in accord with its contextual implications of "truth", "right(eousness)", "order". Aša and its Vedic equivalent rta are both derived from a PIE root meaning "properly joined, right, true". The word is the proper name of the divinity Asha, the personification of "Truth" and "Righteousness". Aša corresponds to an objective, material reality which embraces all of existence.[85] This cosmic force is imbued also with morality, as verbal Truth, and Righteousness, action conforming with the moral order.[86] In the literature of the Mandeans, an angelic being, has the responsibility of weighing the souls of the deceased to determine their worthiness, using a set of scales.[87]

In the Vedic religion, rta is an abstract principle of natural order which regulates and coordinates the operation of the universe. The term may be interpreted abstractly as "cosmic order", or simply as "truth".[88] It seems that this concept originally arose in the Indo-Aryan period, from a consideration of the features of nature which either remain constant or which occur on a regular basis.[89]

The individuals fulfil their true natures when they follow the path set for them by the ordinances of Rta, acting according to the Dharma, which is related with social and moral spheres.[90] The god of the waters Varuna was probably originally conceived as the personalized aspect of the otherwise impersonal Ṛta.[91] The gods are never portrayed as having command over Ṛta, but instead they remain subject to it like all created beings.[90]

In Egyptian religion, maat was the ancient Egyptian concept of truth, balance, order, law, morality, and justice. The word is the proper name of the divinity Maat, who was the goddess of harmony, justice, and truth represented as a young woman. It was considered that she set the order of the universe from chaos at the moment of creation.[92] Maat was the norm and basic values that formed the backdrop for the application of justice that had to be carried out in the spirit of truth and fairness.[93]

In Egyptian mythology Maat dealt with the weighing of souls that took place in the underworld. Her feather was the measure that determined whether the souls (considered to reside in the heart) of the departed would reach the paradise of afterlife successfully. In the famous scene of the Egyptian Book of the dead Anubis using a scale weighs the sins of a man's heart against the feather of truth, which represents maat. If man's heart weighs down, then he is devoured by a monster[94]

[edit]See also

Enchanted Moura
Parcae
Norns
Matrones
Three witches
Tekmor
Ananke
Kallone
Asha
Rta
Laima

Sudice (mythology)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

This article does not cite any references or sources. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (December 2009)
The Sudice are the "Fates" of Slavic mythology. Spirits of judgement that meted out fortune, destiny, judgement and in some cases, fatality, when a child was born. In Czech and Slovak languages, they are called Sudičky. They can also be found in Serbian mythology by the name of Sudice and in Polish mythology known as Rodzanice, Narecznice or Sudiczki.

This is what the legend is roughly translated from the Czech Wikipedia page.

Sudička is a figure in Slavic mythology. It tells the story of three old women spinners who approach cradles of every newborn child, and foretell their fate. The first has a big bottom lip from the continuous salivating the thread. The second has an inch-wide thumb from holding the knot and the third has a huge foot from pedaling on the spinning wheel. The fate will fulfill to the man, regardless as to whether he is a good man or a bad man.

The story has many similarities to the Greek myth of the Moirai.

Slavic mythology
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

This article may need to be rewritten entirely to comply with Wikipedia's quality standards. You can help. The discussion page may contain suggestions. (September 2012)

The neutrality of this article is disputed. Relevant discussion may be found on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until the dispute is resolved. (September 2012)

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (May 2008)
Slavic mythology is the mythological aspect of the polytheistic religion that was practised by the Slavs before Christianisation. The religion possesses many common traits with other religions descended from the Proto-Indo-European religion.



Wooden statue of the Perun, the god of thunder and lightning, Russia


Zbruch Idol.
Contents  [hide] 
1 Sources of information
1.1 Written sources
1.2 Archaeological remains
1.3 Folklore traces
1.4 Inauthentic sources
2 Calendar and festivals
3 Cosmology
4 Pantheon
4.1 Supreme god
4.2 Deities
4.2.1 Perun and Veles
4.2.2 Jarilo and Morana
4.2.3 Svarog, Svarožič, Dažbog
4.2.4 Svantevit and Triglav
4.2.5 Zorica and Danica
4.3 Further developments
5 Slavic paganism today
6 See also
7 References
8 External links
[edit]Sources of information

Unlike Greek or Egyptian mythology, there are no first-hand records for the study of Slavic mythology. Despite some arguable theories (for instance, the Book of Veles), it has not been proven that the Slavs had any sort of writing system before the arrival of Saints Cyril and Methodius to Slavic lands in 862. Therefore, all their original religious beliefs and traditions were likely passed down orally over the generations, and basically forgotten over the centuries following their rapid conversion into Christianity (which began with conversion of Bulgaria in 864 and was largely complete by the late 11th century.) Before that, sparse records of Slavic religion were mostly written by non-Slavic Christian missionaries who were uninterested in accurately portraying pagan beliefs. Archaeological remains of old Slavic cult images and shrines have been found, though little can be yielded from them without legitimate knowledge of their contexts, other than confirming existing historical records. Fragments of old mythological beliefs and pagan festivals survive up to this day in folk customs, songs, and stories of all the Slavic nations.

[edit]Written sources


Many generations of Slavic artists were inspired by their national folklore. Illustrated above is Ilya Yefimovich Repin's Sadko in the Underwater Kingdom (1876).
There are currently no known written accounts of Slavic mythology predating the fragmentation of the Proto-Slavic people into West, East, and South Slavs, with the possible exception of a short note in Herodotus’ Histories, mentioning a tribe of Neuri in the far north, whose men, Herodotus claims, transform themselves into wolves for several days each year. Some researchers have interpreted this through the Slavic folk belief in werewolves, whilst others believe that Herodotus actually referred to ancient Slavic carnival festivals, when groups of young men roamed the villages in masks, sometimes referred to as vucari (wolf-humans). The identification of "Neuri" with Proto-Slavs remains controversial, however.

The first authoritative reference to the Slavs and their mythology in written history was made by the 6th century Byzantine historian Procopius, whose Bellum Gothicum described the beliefs of a South Slavic tribe that crossed the Danube heading south in just two days. According to Procopius, these Slavs worshipped a single deity, who crafted lightning and thunder. Though not named explicitly, it can be deduced this is a reference to the deity known as Perun in later historic sources, as in many Slavic languages today (Polish 'piorun' for example). Perun simply means "thunder" or "lightning bolt". He also mentions the belief in various demons and nymphs (i.e. vilas), but does not mention any other names.

The Slavic Primary Chronicle is a major work with many valuable references to the pagan beliefs of Eastern Slavs. The chronicle treats the history of the early Eastern Slavic state. Even though the manuscript was compiled at the beginning of the 12th century, it contains references to and copies of older documents, and describes events predating the Baptism of Kiev. Two deities, Perun and Veles/Volos, are mentioned in the text of the early 10th century peace treaties between pagan rulers of East Slavs and Byzantine Emperors. Later, Nestor the Chronicler describes a state pantheon introduced by Prince Vladimir in Kiev in 980 CE. Vladimir's pantheon included Perun, Hors, Dažbog, Stribog, Simargl, and Mokosh. The Hypatian Codex of the Primary Chronicle also mentions Svarog, compared to Greek Hephaestus. Also very interesting are the passages in the East Slavic epic The Tale of Igor's Campaign referring to Veles, Dažbog, and Hors. The original epic has been dated to the end of the 12th century, although there are marginal disputes over the authenticity of this work.

The most numerous and richest written records are of West Slavic paganism, particularly of Wendish and Polabian tribes, who were forcibly made Christian only at the end of the 12th century. The German missionaries and priests who criticized pagan religion left extensive records of old mythological systems they sought to overcome. However, they hardly restrained themselves from “pious lies”, claiming pagan Slavs were idolatrous, blood-thirsty barbarians. As none of those missionaries learned any Slavic language, their records are confused and exaggerated.

Major works include a chronicle of Thietmar of Merseburg from the beginning of the 11th century, who described a temple in the city of Riedegost (Radegast) where the great deity Zuarasic (Svarožič) was worshipped. According to Thietmar, this was the most sacred place in the land of pagan Slavs, and Svarožič was their most important deity.

Another very valuable document is the Chronica Slavorum written in the late 12th century by Helmold, a German priest. He mentions 'the devil' Zerneboh (Chernobog), goddess Živa, god Porenut, some unnamed gods whose statues had multiple heads and, finally, the great god Svantevit, worshiped on the island of Rügen who, according to Helmod, was the most important of all (Western) Slavic deities.



A modern artistic representation of Saxo Grammaticus.
The third, and arguably the most important record, comes from the Danish chronicler Saxo Grammaticus, who in his Gesta Danorum described the war fought in 1168 by the Danish king Valdemar I against the Wends of Rügen, the conquest of their city at cape Arkona and the destruction of the grand temple of Svantevit that stood there. Saxo meticulously described the worship of Svantevit, the customs associated with it and the tall four-headed statue of the god. He also mentioned multi-headed deities of other Slavic tribes; Rugievit, Porewit and Porentius.

The fourth major source are three biographies of the German warrior-bishop St Otto, who in the early 12th century led several military-pastoral expeditions into the regions of Slavic tribes living near the Baltic Sea. According to the manuscript, the most important Slavic deity was Triglav, whose temples in the city of Szczecin were respected oracles. In the cities of Wolgast and Havelberg, the war god Gerovit was worshiped, a likely corruption of Jarovit, a Slavic deity possibly identical to Jarilo of the East Slavic folklore.

Though considered authentic by some Slavic neopagans, the Book of Veles appears to be a forgery from the first half of the twentieth century.

[edit]Archaeological remains


The Indo-European custom of communal feasts was known as bratchina (from brat, "brother") in Kievan Rus', as slava ("glorification") in Serbia & Macedonia and as sabor ("assembly") in Croatia and Bulgaria.
Statues of several Slavic deities were discovered in 1848, on the banks of the Zbruch river, a tall stone statue was found, with four faces under a single stone hat. Because of its likehood with Saxo's description of the great image in the temple of Rügen, the statue was immediately proclaimed a representation of Svantevit, although it was clear it could not be the original Svantevit of Rügen. Several other multi-headed statues were discovered elsewhere. A tiny four-headed statue from the 10th century, carved out of bone, was unearthed amongst the ruins of Preslav, a capital of medieval Bulgarian tsars. A two-headed, human-sized wooden statue was discovered on an island in the Tollensesee lake near Neubrandenburg: in the Middle Ages, this was the land of the Slavic Dolenain tribe, whose name survives in the name of the lake. Furthermore, a three-headed statue was discovered in Dalmatia (Croatia) on the hill bearing the name of Suvid, not far from the peak of Mt. Dinara called Troglav.

The remains of several Slavic shrines have also been discovered. Some archeological excavations on the cape of Arkona on Rügen island have uncovered vestiges of a great temple and a city, identified with those described by Saxo. In Novgorod, at the ancient Peryn skete, archeologists discovered the remains of a pagan shrine likely dedicated to Perun. The shrine consisted of a wide circular platform centred around a statue. The platform was encircled by a trench with eight apses, which contain remains of sacrificial altars. Remains of a citadel with a more or less identical layout were discovered on a location with the suggestive name Pohansko (Paganic), near Břeclav in the Czech Republic.

All these archeological remains have the multiplicity of aspects in common. Statues of gods with multiple faces and remains of shrines with multiple sacrificial altars confirm written reports of Christian missionaries about the Slavs worshipping polycephalic gods, and also indicate that ancient Slavic mythology apparently put great emphasis on worship of deities with more aspects than one.

Also quite important are remains of several pieces of pottery from 4th century Chernyakhov culture. Russian archeologist Boris Rybakov identified and interpreted symbols inscribed onto them as records of the ancient Slavic calendar.

It is commonly claimed that worshiping among Slavic people often happened in the woods rather than in shrines. Such woods were called "gaje" in the Proto-Slavic language (compare Polish gaj 'small wood, thicket, bush, grove'; see: sacred grove), and were sometimes encircled by a fence which created a sacred area, both a natural and social sphere. Sometimes they would be used as cemeteries as well (see Kleczanów Wood).[citation needed]

[edit]Folklore traces
As various Slavic populations were Christianised between the 7th and 12th centuries, Christianity was introduced as a religion of the elite, flourishing mostly in cities and amongst the nobility. Amongst the rural majority of the medieval Slavic population, old myths remained strong. Christian priests and monks in Slavic countries, particularly in Russia, for centuries fought against the phenomenon called dvoeverie (double faith). On the one hand, peasants and farmers eagerly accepted baptism, masses and the new Christian holidays. On the other hand, they still persisted performing ancient rites and worshiping old pagan cults, even when the ancient deities and myths on which those were based were forgotten.

This was because, from a perspective of the Slavic peasant, Christianity was not a replacement of old Slavic mythology, but rather an addition to it. Christianity may have offered a hope of salvation, and of blissful afterlife in the next world, but for survival in this world, for yearly harvest and protection of cattle, the old religious system with its fertility rites, its protective deities, and its household spirits was taken to be necessary. This was a problem the Christian church never really solved; at best, it could offer a Christian saint or martyr to replace the pagan deity of a certain cult, but the cult itself thrived, as did the mythological view of the world through which natural phenomena were explained.

While folk beliefs and traditions of all Slavic peoples indeed are the richest resource for reconstructing the ancient pagan beliefs, these may very likely have lost their original mythology and sanctity. People entertained a vague idea that some festivals must be celebrated in a certain way, some stories must be told or some songs must be sung, merely in accordance with tradition. Cults of old deities were mixed with worship of new Christian saints, and old rituals blended among new Christian holidays.



Gamayun, one of three prophetic birds of Russian folklore, alongside Alkonost and Sirin (painting by Viktor Vasnetsov, 1897).
This led scholars to analyse the structure of folklore itself, and to devise methodologies through which they could reconstruct the lost mythology from this structure. We can roughly divide the folklore accounts into two groups:

Fairy tales about various fantastical characters and creatures such as Alkonost, Baba Yaga, Koschei the Deathless, Firebird, Zmey, songs and tales of legendary heroes such as Russian bogatyrs, and superstitions about various demons and spirits such as domovoi, likho, vilas, vampires, vodyanoy, rusalkas, etc. Many of these tales and beliefs may be quite ancient, and probably contain at least some elements of old mythical structure, but they are not myths themselves. They lack a deeper, sacral meaning and religious significance, and furthermore they tend to vary greatly among various Slavic populations.
Folk celebrations of various Christian festivals and popular beliefs in various saints. It is, for instance, quite clear that a popular saint in many Slavic countries, St Elijah the Thunderer, is a replacement of old thunder-god Perun. Likewise, traces of ancient deities can also be found in cults of many other saints, such as St Mary, St Vitus, St George, St Blaise and St Nicholas, and it is also obvious that various folk celebrations, such as the spring feast of Jare or Jurjevo and the summer feast of Ivanje or Ivan Kupala, both very loosely associated with Christian holidays, are abundant with pre-Christian elements. These beliefs have considerable religious and sacral significance to the people still performing them. The problem is, of course, that the elements of pre-Christian religion are hopelessly mixed into popular Christianity.
Reconstruction of original Slavic myths is thus true detective work, requiring a considerable knowledge of various scientific disciplines such as semiotics, linguistics, philology, comparative mythology and ethnology. Folklore accounts must be analysed on level of structure, not merely as songs or stories, but as groups of signs and symbols which contain some internal structural logic. Each of these signs is composed of some key words, which are more than simply names of characters, places or artifacts. One important aspect of symbols is that they are almost impossible to change; while their names may be altered, their structure may not. Changing or losing of key words would result in a change of symbol, which would then invalidate the internal structural logic of a text and render the entire tale meaningless. It would then soon be forgotten, because the pattern, or logic, through which it was transmitted over generations would be lost.

For example: as already stated, the Slavic god of thunder, Perun, was mostly equated with St Elijah the Thunderer in Christian folklore. But he was also sometimes equated with St Michael, and sometimes even with the Christian God, whilst in some Russian or Belarusian folk stories, he was downgraded to various fairy characters such as Tsar Ogin (Tsar Flame) or Grom (Thunder). Notwithstanding changes in the name itself, there are always some key words present which were used to describe Perun as a symbol in ancient mythical texts, and have survived through folklore. Perun is always gore (up, above, high, on the top of the mountain or in heaven; Perun is a heavenly god, and he is also the 'highest' deity of old Slavic pantheon), he is suh (dry, as opposite of wet; he is god of thunder and lightning, which causes fire), he treska/razbija/goni/ubija (strikes/sunders/pursues/kills; he is a god of thunder and storms, destructive and furious) with strela/kamen/molnija (arrow/stone/lightning; Perun's weapons, are of course, his bolts of lightning. He fires them as arrows which are so powerful they explode and blow up stones when they hit them). These key words are always preserved in folklore traces, even if the true name of Perun has been long since forgotten. Consequently, the structure of this symbol allowed the identification of Perun with similar characters either from Christian religion or from later folklore, which share these similarities in the structure of their own symbols.

Following similar methodology, and drawing parallels with the structure of other, related Indo-European mythologies (particularly Baltic mythology), and occasionally using some hints found in historical records of Slavic paganism, some of the ancient myths could be reconstructed. Significant progress in the study of Slavic mythology was made during the last 30 years, mostly through the work of the Russian philologists Vladimir Toporov and Vyacheslav Vsevolodovich Ivanov, as well as that of the Croatian scientists Radoslav Katičić and Vitomir Belaj. Also very valuable are the studies of Russian scholar Boris Uspensky and of Serbian philologist and ethnologist Veselin Čajkanović.

However, uncritical interpretation of folklore or unskilled reconstruction of myths can lead to disastrous effects, as explained below.

[edit]Inauthentic sources


Statue of "Radegast" on a Czech Beskydy mountains
When dealing with Slavic mythology, one cannot be too careful or too critical about the validity and authenticity of sources. Scholarly interest in beliefs of ancient Slavs has been continually waxing since the times of Renaissance, and with it the overall number of confusions, errors, misinterpretations, and unsupported reconstructions (not to mention inventions) has also increased.

No valid scientific methodology by which folklore accounts could be interpreted was known before the mid-20th century, and with sparse historical and archeological sources, the doors were thus opened to wild and unwarranted speculation. One of the best examples of overall confusion and complete misinterpretation is a fake deity of love, Lada or Lado, constructed from meaningless exclamations in Slavic wedding songs. Gods such as Koleda and Kupala were constructed from misinterpreted names of popular Slavic folk festivals; Koledo was the Slavic name for Christmas processions of carol singers, whilst the source of the name Kupala is from kupati meaning "to bathe". Christian sources claim that it comes from Ivan Kupala (literally: John the Baptist) however this claim is as baseless as the claim of those who choose to interpret it as a pagan holiday. This festival day is celebrated at the summer solstice in many Slavic, and also western European countries, such as France and Italy. These customs indeed do have more than a few elements of pre-Christian beliefs, but simply inventing gods based on names of customs is not considered a valid method for reconstruction of lost beliefs.



In his early works, notably The Firebird and The Rite of Spring, Igor Stravinsky sought to evoke the imagery and rhythms of pagan Slavic ritual.
Misinterpretation of Thiethmar's historic description of Wendish paganism led to confusion between a god, Svarožič, and the city in which his temple stood, Radegast. Since the name Radegast can be easily etymologised as meaning "Dear guest", this led to the construction of Radegast as the supposed Slavic god of hospitality and sun. Likewise, to pair up with a deity with the sinister sounding name of Chernobog (Black god) mentioned by Helmod, the White God, or Belobog, was invented. That name is not found in any reliable historic or ethnographic record; rather, it was simply assumed that, since there already was a Black God, there simply had to be a White God as well. Again, this is clearly not a scientific approach to the study of Slavic mythology, but pages and pages have been written about the supposed Belobog-Chernobog dualism so far, and many books and scholarly references even today take for granted that such gods were truly worshipped by ancient Slavs.

Even more questionable than confusions or misinterpretations are deliberate forgeries. In the nineteenth and twentieth century, the general population became increasingly interested in Slavic mythology, fuelled by various romantic, nationalistic, and, in modern times, neopagan movements. Forging evidence of ancient mythology, for a time, became almost a sort of hobby among various social groups, often with the aim to promote their own topical agendas. For instance, statues of ancient Slavic gods were "discovered", inscribed with Germanic runes, or folk songs and stories were "recorded" in which half of the Slavic pantheon is described as picking flowers or merrily dancing around a bonfire.

The 19th century Veda Slovena is a heavy mystification of Bulgarian folk songs, with many alleged references to Slavic mythology, which most scholars consider a forgery. A more recent example is the controversial Book of Veles, which claims to be an authentic written record of old Slavic religion from the 9th or 10th century CE, written in Cyrillic, whereas it cannot be proven that the Slavs had any sort of writing system before Christianisation, let alone that they used the Cyrillic alphabet (named, of course, after St Cyril, who coined the first known writing system for Slavs when he was sent together with his brother Methodius to baptise them in the 9th century). Some of the Slavic neopagans use the Book of Veles as their sacred text, and consequently, insist that the document is authentic. However, the original book, supposedly written on birch barks, was lost (if indeed it ever existed), and thus its authenticity cannot be established at present.

[edit]Calendar and festivals

Slavic myths were cyclical, repeating every year over a series of festivities that followed changes of nature and seasons. Thus, to understand their mythology, it is important to understand their concept of calendar. On the basis of archeological and folklore remains, it is possible to reconstruct some elements of the pre-Christian calendar, particularly major festivals.

The year was apparently lunar and began in early March, similar to other Indo-European cultures whose old calendar systems are better known to us. The names for the last night of the old year and the first day of the new year are reconstructed as Velja Noc (*Velja Notj)/Velik Dan (Velikŭ dĭnĭ) (Great Night/Great Day). After Christianization, these names were probably passed onto Easter. In Slavic countries belonging to Orthodox Churches, Easter is known as Velik Dan/Great Day, whilst amongst Catholic Slavs, it is known as Velika Noc/Great Night. The names blend nicely with the translation of the Greek Megale Evthomada, Great Week, the Christian term for the week in which Easter falls. In pagan times, however, this was a holiday probably quite like Halloween. Certain people (shamans[citation needed]) donned grotesque masks and coats of sheep wool, roaming around the villages, as during the Great Night, it was believed, spirits of dead ancestors travelled across the land, entering villages and houses to celebrate the new year with their living relatives. Consequently, the deity of the last day of the year was probably Veles, god of the Underworld.


The spring fertility festival of Maslenitsa, rooted in pagan times and involving the burning of a straw effigy is still celebrated by Slavs all over the world, as seen here in Melbourne, Australia.
There was a large spring festival dedicated to Jarilo, god of vegetation and fertility. Processions of young men or girls used to go round villages on this day, carrying green branches or flowers as symbols of new life. They would travel from home to home, reciting certain songs and bless each household with traditional fertility rites. The leader of the procession, usually riding on a horse, would be identified with Jarilo. The custom of creating pisanki or decorated eggs, also symbols of new life, was another tradition associated with this feast, which was later passed on to Christian Easter.
The summer solstice festival is known today variously as Pust, Ivanje, Kupala or Kries. It was celebrated pretty much as a huge wedding, and, according to some indications from historical sources, in pagan times likely followed by a general orgy. There was a lot of eating and drinking on the night before, large bonfires (in Slavic — Kres) were lit, and youngsters were coupling and dancing in circles, or jumped across fires. Young girls made wreaths from flowers and fern (which apparently was a sacred plant for this celebration), tossed them into rivers, and on the basis of how and where they floated, foretold each other how they would get married. Ritual bathing on this night was also very important; hence the name of Kupala (from kupati = to bathe), which probably fit nicely with the folk translation of the future patron saint the Church installed for this festival, John the Baptist (Ivan Kupala Day). Overall, the whole festivity probably celebrated a divine wedding of a fertility god, associated with the growth of plants for harvesting.
In the middle of summer, there was a festival associated with thunder-god Perun, in post-Christian times transformed into a very important festival of Saint Elijah. It was considered the holiest time of the year, and there are some indications from historic sources that it involved human sacrifices. The harvest probably began afterwards.
It is unclear when exactly the end of harvest was celebrated, but historic records mention an interesting tradition associated with it that was celebrated at the Svantevit temple on the island of Ruyana (present-day Rugen), and survived through later folklore. People would gather in front of the temple, where priests would place a huge wheat cake, almost the size of a human. The high priest would stand behind the cake and ask the masses if they saw him. Whatever their answer was, the priest would then plead that the next year, people could not see him behind the ritual cake, i.e. that the next year's harvest would be even more bountiful.
There was probably also an important festival around winter solstice, which later became associated with Christmas. Consequently, in many Slavic countries, Christmas is called Bozhich, which simply means little god. While this name fits very nicely with the Christian idea of Christmas, the name is likely of pagan origin; it indicated the birth of a young and new god of the sun to the old and weakened solar deity during the longest night of the year. The old sun god was identified as Svarog, and his son, the young and new sun, as Dažbog[citation needed]. An alternative (or perhaps the original) name for this festival was Korochun.
The Serbian tradition of "Badnja Vece" on Christmas Eve can also provide hints into pre-Christian Slavic rituals. In this ceremony, oak branches are collected, and each is adorned with ribbons. A priest will "bless" the branches with water, wheat (or barley) and perhaps walnuts. Interestingly, the infant Jesus is not mentioned in the service. At the conclusion of the ceremony, an oak log is set ablaze.
[edit]Cosmology



Zbruch Idol wooden copy
A fairly typical cosmological concept among speakers of Indo-European languages, that of the World Tree, is also present in Slavic mythology. It is either an oak tree, or some sort of pine tree. The mythological symbol of the World Tree was a very strong one, and survived throughout the Slavic folklore for many centuries after Christianisation. Three levels of the universe were located on the tree. Its crown represented the sky, the realm of heavenly deities and celestial bodies, whilst the trunk was the realm of mortals. They were sometimes combined together in opposition to the roots of the tree, which represented the underworld, the realm of the dead.

The pattern of three realms situated vertically on the axis mundi of the World Tree parallels the horizontal, geographical organization of the world. The world of gods and mortals was situated in the center of the earth, encircled by a sea, across which lay the land of the dead, to where birds would fly every winter and return from in spring. In many folkloric accounts, the concepts of going across the sea (idit) versus coming from across the sea (dolazit) are equated with dying versus returning to life. This echoes an ancient mythological concept that the afterlife is reached by crossing over a body of water. Additionally, on the horizontal axis, the world was also split; in this case by four cardinal points, representing the four wind directions (north, east, south, west). These two divisions of the world, into three realms on the vertical axis and into four points on the horizontal, were quite important in mythology; they can be interpreted in statues of Slavic gods, particularly those of the three-headed Triglav and the four-headed Svantevit.

[edit]Pantheon



Weles, Noc Kupały (2009) NPC
As noted in the description of historical sources, a very wide range of deities was worshipped by Slavs, on a huge geographical area from the shores of the Baltic to the shores of the White Sea, in a time span of over 600 years. Historic sources also show that each Slavic tribe worshipped its own gods, and thus probably had its own pantheon. Overall, ancient Slavic religion seems to be fairly local and cultic in nature, with gods and beliefs varying from tribe to tribe. However, just as in the case of the various Slavic languages — it can be shown that they originate from a single, Proto-Slavic language — it is also possible to establish some sort of Proto-Slavic Olympus and, through careful study of folklore, reconstruct some elements of this original pantheon, from which the various gods of the various Slavic tribes originated.

[edit]Supreme god
There are various modern theories about the supreme Slavic deity being Rod or Svarog, and historic sources show that deities such as Svarožič, Svantevit or Triglav were worshipped as supreme by certain tribes. But overall, the best candidate for the position of supreme deity is by far Perun. His name is the most common in all historic records of Slavic religion; in fact, he is the first Slavic god mentioned in written history (Procopius in his short note mentions that the god of thunder and lightning is the only god of Slavs, lord of all). The Primary Chronicle identifies him as chief god of Kievan Rus before Christianisation. A short note in Helmold's Chronica Slavorum states that West Slavs believe in a single deity in heaven who rules over all the other deities on earth; the name of this deity is not mentioned, but nevertheless it seems quite possible this was a reference to Perun. And even though we do not find the name of Perun in any of the extensive records of West Slavic religion, he was known by all branches of Slavs, as shown by a vast number of toponyms that still bear his name in all Slavic countries today. Finally, by analysing the folklore texts, one will notice that Perun is the only Slavic deity who was equated with the Christian God. These are very strong indications that Perun was indeed the supreme god of the original Proto-Slavic pantheon.

Perun, however, had a match. As Roman Jakobson pointed out, whenever Perun is mentioned in historic texts, he is always "accompanied" by another god, Veles. This relationship can be observed in toponyms as well. Wherever we find a hill or a mountain peak whose name can be associated with Perun, below it, in the lowlands, usually near a river, there will be a place with a name reminiscent of Veles. Consequently, as Perun was sometimes identified with the Сhristian God in folklore accounts, Veles was identified with the Devil.

[edit]Deities
Further information: List of Slavic deities
[edit]Perun and Veles


Veles, the god of waters, earth, and the underworld


Gromoviti znaci or thunder marks such as these were often engraved upon roof beams of houses to protect them from lightning bolts. Identical symbols were discovered on Proto-Slavic pottery of 4th century Chernyakhov culture. They are thought to be symbols of the Slavic god of thunder, Perun.[1]
Ivanov and Toporov reconstructed the ancient myth involving the two major gods of the Proto-Slavic pantheon, Perun and Veles. The two of them stand in opposition in almost every way. Perun is a heavenly god of thunder and lightning, fiery and dry, who rules the living world from his citadel high above, located on the top of the highest branch of the World Tree. Veles is a chthonic god associated with waters, earthly and wet, lord of the underworld, who rules the realm of the dead from down in the roots of the World Tree. Perun is a giver of rain to farmers, god of war and weapons, invoked by fighters. Veles is a god of cattle, protector of shepherds, associated with magic and commerce.

Many places in various Slavic countries still carry the God's name: Perun (the famous mountain in Bosnia Herzegovina, Vareš), Perunac, Perunovac, Perunika, Perunička Glava, Peruni Vrh, Perunja Ves, Peruna Dubrava, Perunuša, Perušice, Perudina and Perutovac. These names today mostly represent mountain tops, but in medieval times, large oaks, sacred groves and even entire villages or citadels were named Perun. Also, as mentioned already, in Ukrainian perun and in Polish piorun means "thunderbolt". Among South Slavs, a mountain plant Iris germanica is known in folklore as perunika ("Perun's plant") and sometimes also as bogisha, ("god's plant"), and was believed to grow from ground that had been struck by lightning.

A cosmic battle fought between the two of them echoes the ancient Indo-European myth of a fight between a storm god and a dragon. Attacking with his lightning bolts from the sky, Perun pursues his serpentine enemy Veles, who slithers down over the earth. Veles taunts Perun and flees, transforming himself into various animals, hiding behind trees, houses, or people. In the end, Perun catches up with the dog Veles turned into and eventually befriends him using kind words and bits of meat, only to then grab the dog and throw him into a lake, where Veles drowns. Perun does not actually destroy Veles, but simply returns him to his place in the world of the dead. Thus the order of the world, disrupted by Veles's mischief, is established once again by Perun. The idea that storms and thunder are actually a divine battle between the supreme god and his arch-enemy was extremely important to Slavs, and continued to thrive long after Perun and Veles were replaced by the Сhristian God and Devil. A lightning bolt striking down a tree or burning down a peasant's house was always explained through the belief of a raging heavenly deity bashing down on his earthly, underworldly, enemy.

The enmity of the two gods was explained by Veles' theft of Perun's cattle, or by Perun's theft of Veles' cattle (since Veles was the god of cattle, the matter of ownership here is not clear). The motif of stealing divine cattle is also a common one in Indo-European mythology; the cattle in fact may be understood simply as a metaphor for heavenly water or rain. Thus, Veles steals rain water from Perun, or Perun steals water for rain from Veles (again, since Veles is associated with waters, and Perun with sky and clouds, it is unclear to whom rain should belong). An additional reason for this enmity may be wife-theft. From folklore accounts it seems that the Sun was sometimes considered to be Perun's wife (an odd idea, as all Slavic sun-gods, like Hors and Dažbog, are male). However, since the Sun, in the mythic view of the world, dies every evening, as it descends beyond the horizon and into the underworld where it spends the night, this was understood by Slavs as Veles' theft of Perun's wife (but again, the rebirth of the Sun in the morning could also be understood as Perun's theft of Veles' wife).

[edit]Jarilo and Morana


Burning of Marzanna as a symbol of winter during the spring equinox is one of remains of pre-Christian beliefs in Polish culture
Katicic and Belaj continued down the path laid by Ivanov and Toporov and reconstructed the myth revolving around the fertility and vegetation god, Jarilo, and his sister and wife, Morana, goddess of nature and death. Jarilo is associated with the Moon and Morana is considered a daughter of the Sun. Both of them are children of Perun, born on the night of the new year (Great Night). However, on the same night, Jarilo is snatched from the cradle and taken to the underworld, where Veles raises him as his own. At the Spring festival of Jare/Jurjevo, Jarilo returns from the world of the dead (from across the sea), bringing spring from the ever-green underworld into the realm of the living. He meets his sister Morana and courts her. At the beginning of summer, the festival later known as Ivanje/Ivan Kupala celebrated their divine wedding. The sacred union between brother and sister, children of the supreme god, brings fertility and abundance to earth, ensuring a bountiful harvest. Also, since Jarilo is the (step)son of Veles, and his wife the daughter of Perun, their marriage brings peace between two great gods; in other words, it ensures there will be no storms which could damage the harvest.

After the harvest, however, Jarilo is unfaitfhul to his wife, and she vengefully slays him (returns him into the underworld), renewing the enmity between Perun and Veles. Without her husband, god of fertility and vegetation, Morana — and all of nature with her — withers and freezes in the upcoming winter; she turns into a terrible, old, and dangerous goddess of darkness and frost, and eventually dies by the end of the year. The whole myth would repeat itself anew each following year, and retelling of its key parts was accompanied by the major yearly festivals of the Slavic calendar. The story also shows numerous parallels to similar myths of Baltic and Hittite mythology.

[edit]Svarog, Svarožič, Dažbog


Nicholas Roerich. Slavic Idols (1901).
The name of Svarog is found only in East Slavic manuscripts, where it is usually equated with the Greek smith god Hephaestus. However, the name is very ancient, indicating that Svarog was a deity of the Proto-Slavic pantheon. The root svar means bright, clear, and the suffix -og denotes a place. Comparison with Vedic Svarga indicates that Svarog simply meant (daylight) sky. It is possible he was the original sky god of the pantheon, perhaps a Slavic version of Proto-Indo-European *Dyēus Ph2ter. Svarog can be also understood as meaning a shining, fiery place; a forge. This, and identification with Hephaestus from historic sources, indicates he was also a god of fire and blacksmithing. According to the interpretation by Ivanov and Toporov, Svarog had two sons: Svarožič, who represented fire on earth, and Dažbog, who represented fire in the sky and was associated with the Sun. Svarog was believed to have forged the Sun and have given it to his son Dažbog to carry it across the sky.

In Russian manuscripts he is equated with the Sun, and folklore remembers him as a benevolent deity of light and sky. Serbian folklore, however, presents a far darker picture of him; he is remembered as Dabog, a frightful and lame deity guarding the doors of the underworld, associated with mining and precious metals. Veselin Čajkanović pointed out that these two aspects fit quite nicely into the symbolism of the Slavic solar deity; a benevolent side represents Dažbog during the day, when he carries the Sun across the sky. The malevolent and ugly Dabog carries the Sun through the underworld at night. This pattern can also be applied to the Sun's yearly cycle; a benevolent aspect is associated with the young summer Sun, and a malevolent one with the old winter Sun.

Svarožič was worshipped as a fire spirit by Russian peasants well after Christianisation. He was also known amongst Western Slavs, but there he was worshipped as a supreme deity in the holy city of Radegast. Svarožič is simply a diminutive of Svarog's name, and thus it may simply be another aspect (a surname, so to speak) of Dažbog. There is also the point of view that Svarog was the ancestor of all other Slavic gods, and thus Svarožič could simply be an epithet of any other deity, so that Dažbog, Perun, Veles, and so on, were possibly all Svarožičs.

[edit]Svantevit and Triglav


Svantevit, Arkona
It is somewhat ironic that the position of these two gods in the Proto-Slavic pantheon is unclear, yet the historic accounts written about them are the most extensive. That they were important to all pagan Slavs is indicated by a significant number of toponyms whose names can be associated with them and by discoveries of multi-headed statues in various Slavic lands. Both of these gods were considered supreme in various locations; they were associated with divination and symbolized by the horse. A possibly significant difference is that Svantevit had a white horse whilst Triglav had a black one, and Svantevit was represented with four heads whilst Triglav (whose name simply means three-headed) with three. Svantevit was also associated with victory in war, harvest, and commerce.

Various hypotheses about them were proposed: that they are in fact one and the same deity, being somewhat similar; that they are not gods at all but compounds of three or four gods, a kind of mini-pantheons. Slavic neopagans tend to think of Triglav in particular as a concept of Trinity. Svantevit has also been proclaimed as a late West Slavic alternation of Perun or Jarilo, or compared with Svarožič and deemed a solar deity. None of these hypotheses is quite satisfactory, and mostly they are just wild speculation, another attempt to reconstruct Slavic mythology as it should be, rather than discovering what it really was like. Further research is necessary before more can be said of these deities.

It is claimed that Slovenia's highest mountain, Triglav, is named after the god Triglav.

[edit]Zorica and Danica
These names mean simply Dawn and Daystar, but in folklore accounts of all Slavic nations, they are often described as persons, or associated with persons, in pretty much the same way as Sun and Moon. Danica is often called Sun's younger sister or daughter, and was probably associated with Morana. Consequently, Zorica was either Sun's mother or older sister. It is quite possible this was a Slavic relic of the Proto-Indo-European dawn god.

[edit]Further developments
Ivanov and Toporov also schematically periodised various stages of development of Slavic mythology, attempting to show how it evolved from the original pantheon:

The first subsequent development occurred after the Proto-Slavs had split into East, West, and South Slavs. Each branch of the Slavic family devised various feminine deities of household (e.g. Mokosh), and deities associated with crafts, agriculture, and fertility (e.g. Rod and Chur). Deities such as Hors and Simargl are sometimes interpreted as the East Slavic borrowings from their Iranian neighbours.


Baba Yaga, by Ivan Bilibin.
At the level of abstract personification of divine functions, we have such concepts as Pravda/Krivda (Right/Wrong), Dobra Kob/Zla Kob (Good Fortune/Evil Fortune). These concepts, found in many Slavic fairy tales, are presumed to have originated at a time when old myths were already being downgraded to the level of legends and stories. Loius Leger pointed out that various Slavic words describing success, destiny, or fortune are all connected with the ancient Slavic word for God — "bog". Although used to denote the God of Christianity, the word is of pagan origin and quite ancient. It originates from the Proto-Indo-European root *bhag (meaning fortune), being cognate to Avestic baga and Sanskrit bhagah (epithets of deities).
The next level of development is a mythologisation of historical traditions. Beginning in pagan times, it continued well after the advent of Сhristianity. It is characterised by tales and songs of legendary heroes, ranging from purely legendary founders of certain tribes, such as the stories about Lech, Czech, and Rus, to quite historical persons such as the 15th century Croatian-Hungarian king Matthias Corvinus or the Serbian Prince Marko, who were both immortalised in folk legend or poetry. Russian bylinas about bogatyrs, Polish legends of Krak the Dragonslayer, Czech legends about Libuše, and the foundation of Prague all fall into this category. Various elements of these tales will still reveal elements of old myths (such as a hero slaying a dragon, a faint echo of an ancient concept of a cosmic battle between Perun the Thunderer and the serpentine Veles).
On an even lower level, certain mythical archetypes evolved into fairy-tale characters. These include Baba Yaga, Koschei the Immortal, Nightingale the Robber, Vodyanoy, Zmey Gorynych, and so on. At this point of development, one can hardly speak of mythology anymore. Rather, these are legends and stories which contain some fragments of old myths, but their structure and meaning are not so clear.
The lowest level of development of Slavic mythology includes various groups of home or nature spirits and magical creatures, which vary greatly amongst different Slavic nations. Mythic structure on this level is practically incomprehensible, but some of the beliefs nevertheless have a great antiquity. As early as the 5th century, Procopius mentioned that Slavs worshipped river and nature spirits, and traces of such beliefs can still be recognised in the tales about vilas, vampires, witches, and werewolves.

Parcae
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


Les Parques ("The Parcae," ca. 1885) by Alfred Agache
In ancient Roman religion and myth, the Parcae (singular, Parca) were the female personifications of destiny, often called the Fates in English. Their Greek equivalent were the Moirai. They controlled the metaphorical thread of life of every mortal and immortal from birth to death. Even the gods feared the Parcae. Jupiter also was subject to their power.

The names of the three Parcae were:

Nona (Greek equivalent Clotho), who spun the thread of life from her distaff onto her spindle;[1]
Decima (Greek Lachesis), who measured the thread of life with her rod;[2]
Morta (Greek Atropos), who cut the thread of life and chose the manner of a person's death.[3][4][5]
The earliest extant documents referencing these deities are three small stelae (cippi) found near ancient Lavinium shortly after World War II.[6] They bear the inscription:

Neuna fata, Neuna dono, Parca Maurtia dono

The names of two of the three Roman Parcae are recorded (Neuna = Nona, Maurtia = Morta) and connected to the concept of fata.[7]



The Three Parcae Spinning the Fate of Marie de' Medici (1622-1625) by Peter Paul Rubens
Nona was supposed to determine a person's lifespan on the dies lustricus, that is, the day on which the name of the child was chosen, which occurred on the ninth day from birth for a male and the eighth for a female.[8]

The recurrence of the nundinae was also considered a dies festus and as such nefas by some Roman scholars as Julius Caesar and Cornelius Labeo, because on it the flaminica dialis offered the sacrifice of a goat to Jupiter in the Regia.[9]

One of the sources for the Parcae is Metamorphoses by Ovid, II 654, V 532, VIII 452, XV 781.

[edit]See also

Fates (disambiguation)
Norns, equivalent of the Fates in Norse mythology
List of Roman birth and childhood deities

Nona was one of the Parcae, the three personifications of destiny in Roman mythology (the Moirai in Greek mythology and in Germanic mythology, the Norns), and the Roman goddess of pregnancy. The Roman equivalent of the Greek Clotho, she spun the thread of life from her distaff onto her spindle. Nona, whose name means "ninth", was called upon by pregnant women in their ninth month when the child was due to be born.

She, Decima and Morta together controlled the metaphorical thread of life.

In Roman mythology, Decima was one of the Parcae, or the Fates. She measured the thread of life with her rod. She was also revered as the goddess of childbirth. Her Greek equivalent was Lachesis.

In Roman mythology, Morta was the goddess of death. She is one of the Parcae, related to the Roman conception of the Fates in Greek mythology, the Moirai. She is responsible for pain and death that occurs in a half wake half sleep time frame. Her father is the god of night and her mother the goddess of darkness. She visits and warns in advance of the pain or death about to be endured.

Clotho (Greek: Κλωθώ) is the youngest of the Three Fates or Moirai, in ancient Greek mythology. Her Roman equivalent is Nona. Clotho was responsible for spinning the thread of human life. She also made major decisions, such as when a person was born, thus in effect controlling people's lives. This power enabled her not only to choose who was born, but also to decide when gods or mortals were to be saved or put to death. For example, when Pelops was killed and boiled by his father, it was Clotho who brought him back to life.

As one of the three fates her contribution to mythology was immense. Clotho, along with her sisters and Hermes, was given credit for creating the alphabet for their people. Even though Clotho and her sister were real goddesses, their representation of fate is more focused upon in Greek mythology. Thread represented human life and her decisions represented the fate of all men in society.

Contents  [hide] 
1 Origin
2 The Ivory Shoulder
3 The Fooling of the Fates
4 The Calydonian Boar Hunt
5 References
6 External links
[edit]Origin

Clotho was the daughter of Zeus and Themis, and sister to Lachesis and Atropos, according to Greek mythology. Clotho is also mentioned in the tenth book of the Republic of Plato as the daughter of Necessity. In Roman mythology it was believed that she was daughter of Uranus and Gaia. She and her sisters were collectively called the Three Fates.

[edit]The Ivory Shoulder

As one of the Three Fates, Clotho assisted Hermes in creating the alphabet, forced the goddess Aphrodite into making love with other gods, killed the Titan Typhon with poison fruit, persuaded Zeus to kill Asclepius with a bolt of lightning, and aided the gods in their war with the Giants by killing Agrius and Thoas with bronze clubs. Clotho also used her life-giving powers in the myth of Tantalus, the god who had slain and prepared his son Pelops for a dinner party with other gods. When the other gods had found out what Tantalus had done, they put the remaining pieces of Pelops in a cauldron. Clotho brought him back to life, with the exemption of his eaten shoulder, which was replaced by a chunk of ivory. Tantalus was then thrust into Hades for what he had done to his own kin. Clotho was worshiped in many places in Greece as one of the Three Fates and is sometimes associated with the Keres and Erinyes, which are other deity groups in Greek mythology. Ariadne, the Greek goddess of fertility, is similar to Clotho in that she carries a ball of thread, much like Clotho’s spindle.

[edit]The Fooling of the Fates

Clotho, along with the other two Fates, was tricked by becoming intoxicated by Alcestis. Alcestis, who had two children with Admetus, became deeply anguished when Admetus became very sick and eventually died. Alcestis took advantage of Clotho's drunkenness and tried to get her husband back. The Three Fates explained that if they were to find a replacement for Admetus then he could be released from the Underworld. A substitute was not found so Alcestis offered herself up to be the replacement in order to bring her husband back to life. As the agreement had been met, Alcestis quickly began to grow sick and sank into her grave as Admetus came back to life. There was no turning back now that the process had started. At the last instant, Hercules arrived at the home of Admetus in the midst of the predicament. When Death came to take Alcestis away, Hercules wrestled him and forced him to return Alcestis, allowing Admetus and Alecetis to be reunited.

[edit]The Calydonian Boar Hunt

Although there does not seem to be an epic tale in Greek mythology in which the Fates are the main focus, they have played critical roles in the lives of gods and mortals. An engaging tale in which the Fates played an integral part was that of Meleagros and the Brand, which WHD Rouse succinctly describes in Gods, Heroes and Men of Ancient Greece. Meleagros led a hunting party to slay the Calydonian Boar, which was set loose upon Calydon by Artemis. She was displeased at the Calydonian king for neglecting to make a proper sacrifice to her. After slaying the boar, Meleagros presented the skin to a female member of the party, Atalanta, with whom he was smitten. His uncles were also part of the adventurous group, and they were upset by Meleagros' gift to Atalanta. They believed a female should not have the skin of the boar. As a result of this disagreement, Meleagros slew his uncles, who were his mother's brothers. She was so enraged that she decided to take vengeance upon him. She remembered a visit that the Fates had made a week after Meleagros was born. A Fate told Althaia that her son’s life would expire when the burning log in the fireplace ceased to flame. She promptly extinguished the flames, preserved it and hid it safely. In her rage over the loss of her brothers, she lit the log to punish Meleagros. As the log was consumed in flame, Meleagros burned to death.

Lachesis (mythology)
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2008)
In Greek mythology, Lachesis (also Lakhesis, Greek: Λάχεσις, English: "disposer of lots", Etymology: λαγχάνω, langchano, to obtain by lot, by fate, or by the will of the gods) was the second of the Three Fates, or Moirai - Clotho, Lachesis and Atropos. Normally seen clothed in white, Lachesis is the measurer of the thread woven by Clotho's spindle, and in some texts, determines Destiny, or thread of life.[1] Her Roman equivalent was Decima. Lachesis was the apportioner, deciding how much time for life was to be allowed for each person or being.[2] She measured the thread of life with her rod. She is also said to choose a person's destiny after a thread was measured. In mythology, it is said that she appears with her sisters within three days of a baby's birth to decide its fate.

[edit]Origin

According to Hesiod's Theogony, she and her sisters (Atropos and Clotho) are the daughters of Nyx (Night) and Erebus. Lachesis is also mentioned in the tenth book of the Republic of Plato as the daughter of Necessity. She instructs the souls who are about to choose their next life, assign them lots, and presents them all of the kinds, human and animal, from which they may choose their next life.

Other sources site that the three are daughters from Zeus and Themus.[3][4] They are also named Klotho, Lachesis and Atropos - associated with weavers and spinners of human destiny.

Atropos
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

This article needs additional citations for verification. Please help improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged and removed. (October 2011)
For other uses, see Atropos (disambiguation).


Bas relief of Atropos cutting the thread of life
Atropos or Aisa ( /ˈætrəpɒs/; Ancient Greek: Ἄτροπος "without turn"), in Greek mythology, was one of the three Moirai, goddesses of fate and destiny. Her Roman equivalent was Morta.

Atropos or Aisa was the oldest of the Three Fates, and was known as the "inflexible" or "inevitable." It was Atropos who chose the mechanism of death and ended the life of each mortal by cutting their thread with her "abhorred shears." She worked along with her two sisters, Clotho, who spun the thread, and Lachesis, who measured the length.

[edit]Origin

Her origin, along with the other two fates, is uncertain, although some called them the daughters of the night. It is clear, however, that at a certain period they ceased to be only concerned with death and also became those powers who decided what may happen to individuals. Although Zeus was the chief Greek god and their father, he was still subject to the decisions of the Fates, and thus the executor of destiny, rather than its source. According to Hesiod's Theogony, Atropos and her sisters (Clotho and Lachesis) were the daughters of Nyx (Night), though later in the same work (ll. 901-906) they are said to have been born of Zeus and Themis.

[edit]Medicine

Atropos lends her name to the poisonous plant Atropa belladonna or Deadly Nightshade and to the alkaloid atropine, an anticholinergic drug which is derived from it.


Norns
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
For other uses, see Norns (disambiguation).


Norse mythology, Sjódreygil and the Norns Faroese stamps 2006


The Norns spin the threads of fate at the foot of Yggdrasil, the tree of the world. Beneath them is the well Urðarbrunnr with the two swans that have engendered all the swans in the world.


The Norns (1889) by Johannes Gehrts.
The Norns (Old Norse: norn, plural: nornir) in Norse mythology[1] are female beings who rule the destiny of gods and men, a kind of dísir comparable to the Fates in Greek mythology.

According to Snorri Sturluson's interpretation of the Völuspá, the three most important norns, Urðr (Wyrd), Verðandi and Skuld come out from a hall standing at the Well of Urðr (well of fate) and they draw water from the well and take sand that lies around it, which they pour over Yggdrasill so that its branches will not rot.[2] These norns are described as three powerful maiden giantesses (Jotuns) whose arrival from Jötunheimr ended the golden age of the gods.[2] They may be the same as the maidens of Mögþrasir who are described in Vafþrúðnismál (see below).[2]

Beside these three norns, there are many other norns who arrive when a person is born in order to determine his or her future.[2] There were both malevolent and benevolent norns, and the former caused all the malevolent and tragic events in the world while the latter were kind and protective goddesses.[2] Recent research has discussed the relation between the myths associated with norns and valkyries and the actual travelling Völvas (seiðr-workers), women who visited newborn children in the pre-Christian Norse societies.[3]

Contents  [hide] 
1 Etymology
2 Relation to other Germanic female deities
3 Attestations
3.1 Poetic Edda
3.1.1 Helgakviða Hundingsbana I
3.1.2 Helgakviða Hundingsbana II
3.1.3 Reginsmál
3.1.4 Sigurðarkviða hin skamma
3.1.5 Guðrúnarkviða II
3.1.6 Guðrúnarhvöt
3.1.7 Hamðismál
3.1.8 Sigrdrífumál
3.2 Prose Edda
3.3 Legendary sagas
3.4 Runic inscription N 351 M
3.5 Franks Casket
4 Theories
4.1 Matres and Matrones
4.2 Three norns
5 See also
6 Notes
7 References
8 External links
[edit]Etymology

Whereas the origin of the name norn is uncertain, it may derive from a word meaning "to twine" and which would refer to their twining the thread of fate.[2]

The name Urðr (Wyrd, Weird) means "fate". Both Urðr and Verðandi are derived from the Old Norse verb verða, "to be".[4] While Urðr derives from the past tense ("that which became or happened"), Verðandi derives from the present tense of verða ("that which is happening"). Skuld is derived from the Old Norse verb skole/skulle, "need/ought to be/shall be";[2][5] its meaning is "that which should become, or that needs to occur".[4]

[edit]Relation to other Germanic female deities

See also: Female spirits in Germanic paganism


Fresco of the Norns in Neues Museum, Berlin
There is no clear distinction between norns, fylgjas, hamingjas and valkyries, nor with the generic term dísir. Moreover, artistic license permitted such terms to be used for mortal women in Old Norse poetry, or to quote Snorri Sturluson's Skáldskaparmál on the various names used for women:

Woman is also metaphorically called by the names of the Asynjur or the Valkyrs or Norns or women of supernatural kind.[6]
[edit]Attestations



Mímer and Balder Consulting the Norns (1821-1822) by H. E. Freund.
There are a number of surviving Old Norse sources that relate to the norns. The most important sources are the Prose Edda and the Poetic Edda. The latter contains pagan poetry where the norns are frequently referred to, while the former contains, in addition to pagan poetry, retellings, descriptions and commentaries by the 12th and 13th century Icelandic chieftain and scholar Snorri Sturluson.

[edit]Poetic Edda
The Poetic Edda is valuable in representing older material in poetry from which Snorri tapped information in the Prose Edda. Like, Gylfaginning, the Poetic Edda mentions the existence of many lesser norns beside the three main norns. Moreover, it also agrees with Gylfaginning by telling that they were of several races and that the dwarven norns were the daughters of Dvalin. It also suggests that the three main norns were giantesses (female Jotuns).[7]

Fáfnismál contains a discussion between the hero Sigurd and the dragon Fafnir who is dying from a mortal wound from Sigurd. The hero asks Fafnir of many things, among them the nature of the norns. Fafnir explains that they are many and from several races:

Sigurðr kvað:
12. "Segðu mér, Fáfnir,
alls þik fróðan kveða
ok vel margt vita,
hverjar ro þær nornir,
er nauðgönglar ro
ok kjósa mæðr frá mögum."
-
Fáfnir kvað:
13. "Sundrbornar mjök
segi ek nornir vera,
eigu-t þær ætt saman;
sumar eru áskunngar,
sumar alfkunngar,
sumar dætr Dvalins."[8]
Sigurth spake:
12. "Tell me then, Fafnir,
for wise thou art famed,
And much thou knowest now:
Who are the Norns
who are helpful in need,
And the babe from the mother bring?"
-
Fafnir spake:
13. "Of many births
the Norns must be,
Nor one in race they were;
Some to gods, others
to elves are kin,
And Dvalin's daughters some."[9]
It appears from Völuspá and Vafþrúðnismál that the three main norns were not originally goddesses but giantesses (Jotuns), and that their arrival ended the early days of bliss for the gods, but that they come for the good of mankind.

Völuspá relates that three giantesses of huge might are reported to have arrived to the gods from Jotunheim:



The Norns
Arthur Rackham.
8. Tefldu í túni,
teitir váru,
var þeim vettergis
vant ór gulli,
uns þrjár kvámu
þursa meyjar
ámáttkar mjök
ór Jötunheimum.[10]
8. In their dwellings at peace
they played at tables,
Of gold no lack
did the gods then know,--
Till thither came
up giant-maids three,
Huge of might,
out of Jotunheim.[9]
Vafþrúðnismál probably refers to the norns when it talks of maiden giantesses who arrive to protect the people of earth as protective spirits (hamingjas)[2][11]:

49. "Þríar þjóðár
falla þorp yfir
meyja Mögþrasis;
hamingjur einar
þær er í heimi eru,
þó þær með jötnum alask."[12]
49. O’er people’s dwellings
three descend
of Mögthrasir’s maidens,
the sole Hamingiur
who are in the world,
although with Jötuns nurtured.[13]
The Völuspá contains the names of the three main Norns referring to them as maidens like Vafþrúðnismál probably does:

20. Þaðan koma meyjar
margs vitandi
þrjár ór þeim sæ,
er und þolli stendr;
Urð hétu eina,
aðra Verðandi,
- skáru á skíði, -
Skuld ina þriðju;
þær lög lögðu,
þær líf kuru
alda börnum,
örlög seggja.[10]
20. Thence come the maidens
mighty in wisdom,
Three from the dwelling
down 'neath the tree;
Urth is one named,
Verthandi the next,--
On the wood they scored,--
and Skuld the third.
Laws they made there,
and life allotted
To the sons of men,
and set their fates.[9]
[edit]Helgakviða Hundingsbana I


The Norns
Arthur Rackham.


The Norns Urðr, Verðandi, and Skuld under the world oak Yggdrasil (1882) by Ludwig Burger.
The norns visited each newly born child to allot his or her future, and in Helgakviða Hundingsbana I, the hero Helgi Hundingsbane has just been born and norns arrive at the homestead:

2. Nótt varð í bæ,
nornir kómu,
þær er öðlingi
aldr of skópu;
þann báðu fylki
frægstan verða
ok buðlunga
beztan þykkja.
-
3. Sneru þær af afli
örlögþáttu,
þá er borgir braut
í Bráluni;
þær of greiddu
gullin símu
ok und mánasal
miðjan festu.
-
4. Þær austr ok vestr
enda fálu,
þar átti lofðungr
land á milli;
brá nift Nera
á norðrvega
einni festi,
ey bað hon halda.[14]
2. 'Twas night in the dwelling,
and Norns there came,
Who shaped the life
of the lofty one;
They bade him most famed
of fighters all
And best of princes
ever to be.
-
3. Mightily wove they
the web of fate,
While Bralund's towns
were trembling all;
And there the golden
threads they wove,
And in the moon's hall
fast they made them.
-
4. East and west
the ends they hid,
In the middle the hero
should have his land;
And Neri's kinswoman
northward cast
A chain, and bade it
firm ever to be.[15]
[edit]Helgakviða Hundingsbana II
In Helgakviða Hundingsbana II, Helgi Hundingsbane blames the norns for the fact that he had to kill Sigrún's father Högni and brother Bragi in order to wed her:

26 "Er-at þér at öllu,
alvitr, gefit,
- þó kveð ek nökkvi
nornir valda -:
fellu í morgun
at Frekasteini
Bragi ok Högni,
varð ek bani þeira.[16]
"Maid, not fair
is all thy fortune,
The Norris[17] I blame
that this should be;
This morn there fell
at Frekastein
Bragi and Hogni
beneath my hand.[18]


The Norns
Arthur Rackham.
[edit]Reginsmál
Like Snorri Sturluson stated in Gylfaginning, people's fate depended on the benevolence or the malevolence of particular norns. In Reginsmál, the water dwelling dwarf Andvari blames his plight on an evil norn, presumably one of the daughters of Dvalin:

2. "Andvari ek heiti,
Óinn hét minn faðir,
margan hef ek fors of farit;
aumlig norn
skóp oss í árdaga,
at ek skylda í vatni vaða."[19]
2. "Andvari am I,
and Oin my father,
In many a fall have I fared;
An evil Norn
in olden days
Doomed me In waters to dwell."[20]
[edit]Sigurðarkviða hin skamma
Another instance of Norns being blamed for an undesirable situation appears in Sigurðarkviða hin skamma, where the valkyrie Brynhild blames malevolent norns for her long yearning for the embrace of Sigurd:

7. Orð mæltak nú,
iðrumk eftir þess:
kván er hans Guðrún,
en ek Gunnars;
ljótar nornir
skópu oss langa þrá."[21]
7. "The word I have spoken;
soon shall I rue it,
His wife is Guthrun,
and Gunnar's am I;
Ill Norns set for me
long desire."[22]
[edit]Guðrúnarkviða II


Norns (1832) from Die Helden und Götter des Nordens, oder Das Buch der sagen
Brynhild's solution was to have Gunnarr and his brothers, the lords of the Burgundians, kill Sigurd and afterwards to commit suicide in order to join Sigurd in the afterlife. Her brother Atli (Attila the Hun) avenged her death by killing the lords of the Burgundians, but since he was married to their sister Guðrún, Atli would soon be killed by her. In Guðrúnarkviða II, the Norns actively enter the series of events by informing Atli in a dream that his wife would kill him. The description of the dream begins with this stanza:

"Svá mik nýliga
nornir vekja," -
vílsinnis spá
vildi, at ek réða, -
"hugða ek þik, Guðrún
Gjúka dóttir,
læblöndnum hjör
leggja mik í gögnum."[23]
39. "Now from sleep
the Norns have waked me
With visions of terror,--
To thee will I tell them;
Methought thou, Guthrun,
Gjuki's daughter,
With poisoned blade
didst pierce my body."[24]
[edit]Guðrúnarhvöt
After having killed both her husband Atli and their sons, Guðrún blames the Norns for her misfortunes, as in Guðrúnarhvöt, where Guðrún talks of trying to escaping the wrath of the norns by trying to kill herself:

13. Gekk ek til strandar,
gröm vark nornum,
vilda ek hrinda
stríð grið þeira;
hófu mik, né drekkðu,
hávar bárur,
því ek land of sték,
at lifa skyldak.[25]
13. "To the sea I went,
my heart full sore
For the Norns, whose wrath
I would now escape;
But the lofty billows
bore me undrowned,
Till to land I came,
so I longer must live.[26]
[edit]Hamðismál


A statue of the Norns at St Stephen's Green.
Guðrúnarhvöt deals with how Guðrún incited her sons to avenge the cruel death of their sister Svanhild. In Hamðismál, her sons' expedition to the Gothic king Ermanaric to exact vengeance is fateful. Knowing that he is about to die at the hands of the Goths, her son Sörli talks of the cruelty of the norns:

29. "Ekki hygg ek okkr
vera ulfa dæmi,
at vit mynim sjalfir of sakask
sem grey norna,
þá er gráðug eru
í auðn of alin.
-
30. Vel höfum vit vegit,
stöndum á val Gotna,
ofan eggmóðum,
sem ernir á kvisti;
góðs höfum tírar fengit,
þótt skylim nú eða í gær deyja;
kveld lifir maðr ekki
eftir kvið norna."
-
31. Þar fell Sörli
at salar gafli,
enn Hamðir hné
at húsbaki.[27]
29. "In fashion of wolves
it befits us not
Amongst ourselves to strive,
Like the hounds of the Norns,
that nourished were
In greed mid wastes so grim.
-
30. "We have greatly fought,
o'er the Goths do we stand
By our blades laid low,
like eagles on branches;
Great our fame though we die
today or tomorrow;
None outlives the night
when the Norris[17] have spoken."
-
31. Then Sorli beside
the gable sank,
And Hamther fell
at the back of the house.[28]
[edit]Sigrdrífumál


The Norns
C. E. Brock.
Since the norns were beings of ultimate power who were working in the dark, it should be no surprise that they could be referred to in charms, as they are by Sigrdrífa in Sigrdrífumál:

17. Á gleri ok á gulli
ok á gumna heillum,
í víni ok í virtri
ok vilisessi,
á Gugnis oddi
ok á Grana brjósti,
á nornar nagli
ok á nefi uglu.[29]
17. On glass and on gold,
and on goodly charms,
In wine and in beer,
and on well-loved seats,
On Gungnir's point,
and on Grani's breast,
On the nails of Norns,
and the night-owl's beak.[30]
[edit]Prose Edda
In the part of Snorri Sturluson's Prose Edda which is called Gylfaginning, Gylfi, the king of Sweden, has arrived at Valhalla calling himself Gangleri. There, he receives an education in Norse mythology from what is Odin in the shape of three men. They explain to Gylfi that there are three main norns, but also many others of various races, æsir, elves and dwarves:

A hall stands there, fair, under the ash by the well, and out of that hall come three maids, who are called thus: Urdr, Verdandi, Skuld; these maids determine the period of men's lives: we call them Norns; but there are many norns: those who come to each child that is born, to appoint his life; these are of the race of the gods, but the second are of the Elf-people, and the third are of the kindred of the dwarves, as it is said here:
Most sundered in birth
I say the Norns are;
They claim no common kin:
Some are of Æsir-kin,
some are of Elf-kind,
Some are Dvalinn's daughters."
Then said Gangleri: "If the Norns determine the weirds of men, then they apportion exceeding unevenly, seeing that some have a pleasant and luxurious life, but others have little worldly goods or fame; some have long life, others short." Hárr said: "Good norns and of honorable race appoint good life; but those men that suffer evil fortunes are governed by evil norns."[31]
The three main norns take water out of the well of Urd and water Yggdrasil:

It is further said that these Norns who dwell by the Well of Urdr take water of the well every day, and with it that clay which lies about the well, and sprinkle it over the Ash, to the end that its limbs shall not wither nor rot; for that water is so holy that all things which come there into the well become as white as the film which lies within the egg-shell,--as is here said:
I know an Ash standing
called Yggdrasill,
A high tree sprinkled
with snow-white clay;
Thence come the dews
in the dale that fall--
It stands ever green
above Urdr's Well.
That dew which falls from it onto the earth is called by men honey-dew, and thereon are bees nourished. Two fowls are fed in Urdr's Well: they are called Swans, and from those fowls has come the race of birds which is so called."[31]


...and the youngest Norn, she who is called Skuld, ride ever to take the slain and decide fights...Faroe stamp by Anker Eli Petersen depicting the norns (2003).
Snorri furthermore informs the reader that the youngest norn, Skuld, is in effect also a valkyrie, taking part in the selection of warriors from the slain:

These are called Valkyrs: them Odin sends to every battle; they determine men's feyness and award victory. Gudr and Róta and the youngest Norn, she who is called Skuld, ride ever to take the slain and decide fights.[31]
[edit]Legendary sagas
Some of the legendary sagas also contain references to the norns. The Hervarar saga contains a poem named Hlöðskviða, where the Gothic king Angantýr defeats a Hunnish invasion led by his Hunnish half-brother Hlöðr. Knowing that his sister, the shieldmaiden Hervör, is one of the casualties, Angantýr looks at his dead brother and laments the cruelty of the norns:

32. Bölvat er okkr, bróðir,
bani em ek þinn orðinn;
þat mun æ uppi;
illr er dómr norna."[32]
"We are cursed, kinsman,
your killer am I!
It will never be forgotten;
the Norns' doom is evil."[33]
In younger legendary sagas, such as Norna-Gests þáttr and Hrólfs saga kraka, the norns appear to have been synonymous with völvas (witches, female shamans). In Norna-Gests þáttr, where they arrive at the birth of the hero to shape his destiny, the norns are not described as weaving the web of fate, instead Norna appears plainly as a synonym of vala (völva).

One of the last legendary sagas to be written down, the Hrólfs saga kraka talks of the norns simply as evil witches. When the evil half-elven princess Skuld assembles her army to attack Hrólfr Kraki, it contains in addition to undead warriors, elves and norns.



This romantic representation of the norns depicts one of them (Verdandi according to the runes below) with wings, contrary to folklore.
[edit]Runic inscription N 351 M
Main article: Runic inscription N 351 M
The belief in the norns as bringers of both gain and loss would last beyond Christianization, as testifies the runic inscription N 351 M from the Borgund stave church:

Þórir carved these runes on the eve of Olaus-mass, when he travelled past here. The norns did both good and evil, great toil ... they created for me.[34]
[edit]Franks Casket
Three women carved on the right panel of Franks Casket, an Anglo-Saxon whalebone chest from the eighth century, have been identified by some scholars as being three norns.

[edit]Theories

A number of theories have been proposed regarding the norns.[35]

[edit]Matres and Matrones
The Germanic Matres and Matrones, female deities venerated in North-West Europe from the 1st to the 5th century AD depicted on votive objects and altars almost entirely in groups of three from the first to the fifth century AD have been proposed as connected with the later Germanic dísir, valkyries, and norns,[35] potentially stemming from them.[36]

[edit]Three norns
Theories have been proposed that there is no foundation in Norse mythology for the notion that the three main norns should each be associated exclusively with the past, the present, and the future;[2] rather, all three represent destiny as it is twined with the flow of time.[2] Moreoever, theories have been proposed that the idea that there are three main norns may be due to a late influence from Greek and Roman mythology, where there are also spinning fate goddesses (Moirai and Parcae).[2]

[edit]See also

Moirai (The Greek Fates)
Sudice (The Slavic Fates)
Weird sisters (Anglo-Saxon Fates or prophetesses)
Valkyries
Matrones
Parcae (The Roman Fates)
[edit]Notes


Aegir*	 Significant god of the ‘Vanir’. Son of ‘Njord’ and brother of ‘Freyja’.
Balder	 Son of ‘Odin’ and ‘Frigg’. Known as a Noble and Prudent god.
Bor	 Son of ‘Buri’ and father of ‘Odin’, ‘Vili’ and ‘Ve’.
Bragi	 The Norse God of Poetry and Eloquence. Son of ‘Odin’ and husband of’Idun’.
Buri	 Ancestor of the Norse gods.
Day	 Son of ‘Night’ and ‘Delling’. Said to ride around the earth on his horse ‘Skinfaxi’.
Earth	 Daughter of ‘Night’ and ‘Annar’.
Einherjar	 A band of dead warriors in Valhalla who await Ragnarok.
Eir	 Goddess of Healing.
Fjorgyn	 Lover of ‘Odin’ and mother of ‘Thor’. Also referred to as Earth.
Forseti	 God of Justice. Son of ‘Balder’ and ‘Nanna’.
Freya*	 Chief goddess of the ‘Vanir’ (fertility gods). Daughter of ‘Njord’ and sister of ‘Freyr’.
Freyr*	 Crucial god of the ‘Vanir’. Son of ‘Njord’ and brother of ‘Freyja’.
Frigga	 Principal goddess. Wife of ‘Odin’ and mother of ‘Balder’.
Fulla	 Goddess servant of ‘Frigga’.
Gefion	 Fertility goddess.
Gullveig*	 A Vanir goddess.
Heimdall	 Watchman of the Norse gods and possessor of the horn Gjall.
Hel	 Ruler of ‘Helheim’, the land of the dead.
Hermod	 Son of Odin.
Hod	 Son of ‘Odin’. A blind god who accidentally killed his brother ‘Balder’.
Honir	 A long-legged, dithery god. Sent to the ‘Vanir’ to seal the truce between them and the ‘Aesir’.
Idun	 Guardian of the golden apples of youth and wife of ‘Bragi’.
Kvasir*	 The “wisest of the Vanir”
Lofn	 Goddess of ilicit unions.
Loki	 An evil god. Also known as the Sly One.
Magni	 Son of ‘Thor’ and the giantess ‘Jarnsaxa’.
Mimir	 Wise Aesir god. Sent to the Vanir to seal the truce between the Vanir and Aesir.
Modgud	 Guardian of the bridge over the river Gjoll in ‘Jotenheim’.
Modi	 Son of ‘Thor’ and the giantess ‘Jarnsaxa’.
Moon	 Son of ‘Mundilfari’. Guides the moon on it’s course.
Nanna	 Wife of ‘Balder’ and daughter of ‘Nep’.
Narvi	 Also known as Nari. Son of ‘Loki’ and ‘Sigyn’.
Night	 Daughter of ‘Narvi’ and mother of ‘Day’. Rides around the earthon her horse ‘Hrimfaxi’.
Njord*	 A Vanir god associated with wind and sea. Husband of ‘Skadi’ and father of ‘Freyja’ and ‘Freyr’.
Norns	 Urd [fate], Skuld [being] and Verandi [necessity]. Three goddesses of destiny.
Od	 Lost husband of ‘Freyja’ who she constantly mourns for.
Odin	 King of the Norse Gods, God of poetry, battle and death. Chief god of the Aesir
Ran	 Wife of ‘Aegir’ who dragged drowning men down with her net.
Rind	 Lover of ‘Odin’. Mother of ‘Vali’.
Saga	 Goddess and drinking companion of ‘Odin’.
Sif	 Wife of ‘Thor’ whose golden hair was cut off by ‘Loki’.
Sigyn	 Wife of ‘Loki’.
Sjofn	 Goddess of human passion.
Skadi	 Goddess of Winter and of the Hunt
Sun	 Daughter of ‘Mundilfari’ and guide of the sun.
Syn	 Goddess of the accused at trial.
Thor	 God of Sky, thunder and fertility.Son of ‘Odin’ and ‘Earth’ and husband of ‘Sif’.
Thrud	 Daughter of ‘Thor’.
Tyr	 God of War. Son of ‘Odin’ who sacrificed his hand in the binding of ‘Fenrir’.
Ull	 God of Archery and Skiing.
Vali	 Son of ‘Odin’ and the giantess ‘Rind’.
Valkyries	 Beautiful women who carried dying warriors to ‘Valhalla’.
Var	 Goddess of Marriage.
Ve	 Son of ‘Bor’ and brother of ‘Odin’ and ‘Vili’.
Vidar	 Son of ‘Odin’ and the giantess ‘Grid’ who will avenge Odin’s death after Ragnarok.
Vili	 Son of ‘Bor’ and brother of ‘Odin’ and ‘Ve’.
Vor	 Goddess who knows all.

List of Norse gods and goddesses
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
This is a list of Norse gods and goddesses that are in Norse mythology. Divided between the Æsir and the Vanir, and sometimes including the jötnar (giants), the dividing line between these groups is less than clear. However, it is usually accepted that the Æsir (including Óðinn, Þórr and Týr) were warrior gods, while the Vanir (mainly Njörðr, Freyja and Freyr) were fertility gods. Various other groups of beings, including elves, dwarves and jötnar were probably minor gods, and might have had small cults and sacred places devoted to them.
Contents  [hide] 
1 The gods and their function
2 Lesser figures
3 Lists of Norse gods and goddesses contained in the Prose Edda
3.1 Gods
3.2 Goddesses
4 Pseudo-Norse gods and goddesses
[change]The gods and their function

Baldr - God of beauty, innocence, peace, and rebirth. Consort: Nanna
Borr - Father of Óðinn, Vili and Ve. Consort: Bestla
Bragi - God of poetry. Consort: Iðunn
Búri - The first god and father of Borr.
Dagr - God of the daytime, son of Delling and Nótt.
Delling - God of dawn and father of Dagr by Nótt.
Eir - Goddess of healing.
Forseti - God of justice, peace and truth. Son of Baldr and Nanna.
Freya - Goddess of love, sexuality, fertility and battle. Consort: Óðr
Freyr - God of fertility. Consort: Gerð
Frigg - Goddess of marriage and motherhood. Consort: Óðinn Can also be pronounced Frigga
Fulla - Frigg´s handmaid.
Gmot - God of the moon. Brother of Re`es andWeth.
Gefjun - Goddess of fertility and plough.
Hel - Queen of Neifelheim, the Norse underworld.
Heimdallr (Rígr) - One of the Æsir and guardian of Ásgarð, their realm.
Hermóðr - Óðinn´s son.
Hlín - Goddess of consolation and protection.
Höðr - God of winter.
Hœnir - The silent god.
Iðunn - Goddess of youth. Consort: Bragi.
Jörð - Goddess of the Earth. Mother of Þórr by Óðinn.
Kvasir - God of inspiration.
Lofn - Goddess of love.
Loki - Trickster and god of mischief . Consort: Sigyn (also called Saeter)
Máni - God of Moon.
Mímir - Óðinn´s uncle.
Nanna - An Ásynja married with Baldr and mother to Forseti.
Nerþus - A goddess mentioned by Tacitus. Her name is connected to that of Njörðr.
Njörðr - God of sea, wind, fish, and wealth.
Nótt - Goddess of night, daughter of Narvi and mother of Auð, Jörð and Dagr by Naglfari, Annar and Delling, respectively.
Odin The "All Father" (The Ruler of the gods)
Sága - An obscure goddess, possibly another name for Frigg.
Sif - Wife of Thor.
Sjöfn - Goddess of love.
Skaði - Goddess of winter Njörðr's wife.
Snotra - Goddess of prudence.
Sol (Sunna) - Goddess of Sun.
Thor (Donar) - God of thunder and battle. Consort: Sif.
Tiki- God of stone.
Tree-Goddess of life.[source?]
Tyr- God of war. Also the god of the skies.
Ullr - God of skill, hunt, and duel. Son of Sif.
Váli - God of revenge.
Vár - Goddess of contract.
Vé - One of the three gods of creation. Brother of Óðinn and Vili.
Víðarr- Son of Odin and the giantess Gríðr.
Vör - Goddess of wisdom.
Weth - Goddess of anger
[change]Lesser figures

Ægir - Ruler of the sea. Consort: Rán
Andhrímnir - Cook of the gods.
Aurvandil - A minor character in the Skáldskaparmál with cognates in other Germanic tales.
Elli - Personification of really really old age."
Magni - Son of Þórr and Járnsaxa.
Miming
Móði - Son of Þórr.
Óttar
Rán - Keeper of the drowned. Consort: Ægir
Þrúðr - Daughter of Þórr and Sif.
Ymir - The frozen god
[change]Lists of Norse gods and goddesses contained in the Prose Edda

[change]Gods
Gylfaginning (20-34)
Óðinn
Þórr god of thunder
Baldr
Njörðr
Freyr
Týr
Bragi
Heimdall
Höðr
Víðar
Áli or Váli
Ullr
Forseti
Loki
Skáldskaparmál (1)
Telly
Óðinn
Þórr
Njörðr
Freyr
Týr
Heimdall
Bragi
Víðar
Váli
Ullr
Hœnir
Forseti
Loki
Thula
Ygg
Þórr god of thunder
Yngvi-Freyr
Víðar
Baldr
Váli
Heimdall
Týr
Njörðr
Bragi
|Höðr
Forseti
Loki
[change]Goddesses
Gylfaginning (35)
Frigg
Sága
Eir
Gefjon
Fulla
Freyja
Sjöfn
Lofn
Vár
Vör
Syn
Hlín
Snotra
Gná
Sol
Bil
Skáldskaparmál (1)
Frigg
Freyja
Gefjon
Iðunn
Gerd
Sigyn
Fulla
Nanna
Thula
Frigg
Freyja
Fulla
Snotra
Gerð
Gefjon
Gná
Lofn
Skadi
Jörð
Iðunn
Ilm
Bil
Njörun
Hlín
Nanna
Hnoss
Rind
Sjöfn
Sol
Sága
Sigyn
Vör
Vár
Syn
Þrúð
Rán
[change]Pseudo-Norse gods and goddesses

Some characters sometimes presented as Norse deities do not occur in the ancient sources.
Astrild (Actually a synonym for Amor and Cupid invented and used by Nordic Baroque and Rococo authors. Might be confused with Freyja.)
Jofur (Actually a synonym for Jupiter invented and used by Nordic Baroque and Rococo authors. Might be confused with Thor.)
The following pseudo-deities are presented in Encyclopedia Mythica as Norse.
Brono (Claimed to be the god of daylight and the son of Baldr. Original source unknown. Might be confused with Dagr or Forseti.)
Geirrendour (Claimed to be the father of the billow maidens. Original source unknown. Might be confused with Ægir.)
Glúm (Claimed to be an attendant of Frigg. Source unknown.)
Laga (Claimed to be the goddess of wells and springs. May be the same as Laha, a Celtic goddess of wells and springs.)

List of Germanic deities
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia


A scene from one of the Merseburg Incantations: gods Wodan and Balder stand before the goddesses Sunna, Sinthgunt, Volla, and Friia (Emil Doepler, 1905)
In Germanic paganism, the indigenous religion of the ancient Germanic peoples that inhabited Germanic Europe, there were a number of different gods and goddesses. Germanic deities are attested from numerous sources, including works of literature, various chronicles, runic inscriptions, personal names, place names, and other sources. This article presents a comprehensive list of these deities.

Contents  [hide] 
1 Gods
2 Goddesses
3 See also
4 Notes
5 References
[edit]Gods

Name	Name meaning	Attested consorts and sexual partners	Attested children	Attestations
Baldr (Old Norse), Bældæg (Old English)	Old Norse form is contested. Old English form directly translates as "shining day".[1]	Nanna	Forseti	Merseburg Incantation, Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Gesta Danorum, Chronicon Lethrense, Annales Lundenses, possibly Beowulf
Bragi (Old Norse)	Connected with Bragr ("poetry")[2]	Iðunn	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, skaldic poetry
Dellingr (Old Norse)	Possibly "the dayspring"[3] or "shining one"[4]	Nótt	Dagr	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda
Forseti (Old Norse)	"Chairman"[5]	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda
Freyr (Old Norse), Frea (Old English), Yngvi (Old Norse), Ing (Old English)	"Lord"[6]	Gerðr	Fjölnir (Heimskringla)	Gesta Hammaburgensis ecclesiae pontificum, Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Heimskringla, Ögmundar þáttr dytts, Gesta Danorum, various others
Heimdallr (Old Norse)	"World-brightener"[7]	None attested	None attested	Prose Edda, Poetic Edda
Hermóðr (Old Norse), Heremod (Old English)	"War-spirit"[8]	None attested	Sceaf (Old English only)	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Beowulf, Old English royal genealogies
Höðr (Old Norse)	"Warrior"[9]	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Gesta Danorum, Chronicon Lethrense, Annales Lundenses, possibly Beowulf
Hœnir (Old Norse)	Contested	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, skaldic poetry
Lóðurr (Old Norse)	Contested	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, skaldic poetry
Loki (Old Norse)	Contested	Sigyn, Angrboda	Nari/Narfi, Váli, Fenrir, Hel, Jormungandr, and Sleipnir	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Heimskringla, Loka Táttur, Norwegian rune poem, Danish folk tales
Meili (Old Norse)	"the lovely one"[10]	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda
Njörðr (Old Norse)	Contested	Once unnamed sister, once Skaði	Freyr, Freyja	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Heimskringla, Egils saga, Hauksbók ring oath, place names
Odin: Óðinn (North Germanic), Wōden (West Germanic), *Wōdanaz (Proto-Germanic) (see List of names of Odin for more)	"Frenzy"[11]	Frigg (consort), Skaði (Heimskringla only), Gunnlöð, Jörð, Rindr	See Sons of Odin	Most attestations of Germanic paganism
Óðr (Old Norse)	"The frenzied one"[12]	Freyja	Hnoss, Gersemi	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda
Saxnōt (Old Saxon), Seaxnet, Seaxnēat, Saxnat (Old English)	Contested	None attested	None attested	Old Saxon Baptismal Vow, Old English royal genealogies
Thor: Þórr (North Germanic), Þunor (Old English), Thunaer (Old Saxon), Donar (Southern Germanic areas)	"Thunder", all names stem from Proto-Germanic *ÞunraR[13]	Sif (consort), Járnsaxa	Móði and Magni, Þrúðr	Most attestations of Germanic paganism
Týr (Old Norse), Tīw, Tīg (both Old English), Ziu (Old High German)	"God", derived from Proto-Germanic *Tīwaz[14]	Unnamed, possibly Zisa	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, skaldic poetry, Hadrian's Wall altar
Ullr (Old Norse)	Something like "Glory"[15]	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, skaldic poetry, Gesta Danorum, Thorsberg chape, toponyms in Norway and Sweden
Váli (Old Norse)	Something like "battle-slain"	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Gesta Danorum (as Bous)
Viðarr (Old Norse)	Possibly "wide ruler"[16]	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda
Vé (Old Norse)	Vé (shrine)[17]	Possibly Frigg	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda
Vili (Old Norse)	"Will"[18]	Possibly Frigg	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda
[edit]Goddesses

Name	Name meaning	Attested consorts and sexual partners	Attested children	Attestations
Baduhenna (Latinized Germanic)	Badu-, may be cognate to Proto-Germanic *badwa- meaning "battle." The second portion of the name -henna may be related to -henae, which appears commonly in the names of matrons.[1]	None attested	None attested	Tacitus' Annals
Bil (Old Norse)	Contested	None attested	None attested	Prose Edda
Beyla (Old Norse)	Proposed as related to "cow," "bean," or "bee."[19]	Byggvir	None attested	Poetic Edda
Eir (Old Norse)	"Peace, clemency"[20] or "help, mercy"[21]	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda
Ēostre (Old English)	"East"[22]	None attested	None attested	De temporum ratione
Freyja (Old Norse) (See List of names of Freyja for more)	"Lady"[23]	Freyr, Óðr	Hnoss, Gersemi	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Heimskringla, Sörla þáttr
Frigg (Old Norse)	Derived from an Indo-European root meaning "Love"[24]	Odin	Baldr	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Gesta Danorum, Historia Langobardorum
Fulla (Old Norse)	Possibly "bountiful"[25]	None attested	None attested	Merseburg Incantations, Prose Edda
Gefjun (Old Norse)	Related to "giving"[26]	Skjöldr, unnamed jötunn	Four oxen	Prose Edda, Ynglinga saga, Völsa þáttr,
Gersemi (Old Norse)	"Treasure, precious object"[27]	None attested	None attested	Heimskringla
Gerðr (Old Norse)	"Fenced in"[28]	Freyr	Fjölnir (Heimskringla)	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Heimskringla
Gná (Old Norse)	Possibly related to Old Norse Gnæfa, meaning "to project"[29]	None attested	None attested	Prose Edda
Gullveig (Old Norse)	Contested	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda
Hariasa	Possibly related to the valkyrie name Herja or meaning "goddess with lots of hair"[30]	None attested	None attested	Stone from Cologne, Germany (CIL XIII 8185)
Hel (Old Norse)	Ultimately "one who covers up or hides something"	Dyggvi (Ynglingatal)	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Ynglingatal
Hlín (Old Norse)	Possibly related to the Old Norse term hleinir, itself possibly meaning "protects"[31]	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda
Hretha (Old English)	Possibly "the famous" or "the victorious"[32]	None attested	None attested	De temporum ratione
Hnoss (Old Norse)	"Treasure"[31]	None attested	None attested	Prose Edda
Ilmr (Old Norse)	Potentially related to Old Norse ilmr, a masculine noun meaning "pleasant scent"[33]	None attested	None attested	Prose Edda, skaldic poetry
Iðunn (Old Norse)	Possibly "ever young"[34]	Bragi	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda
Irpa (Old Norse)	Possibly relating to "dark brown"[35]	None attested	None attested	Jómsvíkinga saga, Njáls saga
Lofn (Old Norse)	Potentially related to "Praise"[36]	None attested	None attested	Prose Edda
Nanna (Old Norse)	Possibly "mother" from nanna, or potentially related to nanþ-, meaning "the daring one"[37]	Baldr	Forseti	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Gesta Danorum, Chronicon Lethrense, Setre Comb
Nerthus (Latinized Germanic, from Proto-Germanic *Nerthuz)	Latinized form of what Old Norse Njörðr would have looked like around 1 CE.[38]	None attested	None attested	Germania
Njörun (Old Norse)	Possibly related to the Norse god Njörðr and the Roman goddess Nerio[39]	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, skaldic poetry
Nótt (Old Norse)	"Night"[40]	Naglfari, once Annar, Delling	Auðr, Jörð, Dagr	Prose Edda
Rán (Old Norse)	"Theft, robbery"[41]	Ægir	Nine daughters	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Friðþjófs saga hins frœkna
Rindr (Old Norse)	Possibly related to *Vrindr[42]	Odin	Váli	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Gesta Danorum
Sága (Old Norse)	Possibly "to see"[43]	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, skaldic poetry
Sandraudiga (Latinized Germanic)	"She who dyes the sand red."[44]	None attested	None attested	North Brabant stone
Sif (Old Norse)	"In-law-relationship"[45]	Thor	Þrúðr, Ullr	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda
Sigyn (Old Norse)	"Victorious girl-friend"[46]	Loki	Nari, Narfi and/or Váli	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda
Sinthgunt (Old High German)	Contested	None attested	None attested	Merseburg Incantations
Sjöfn (Old Norse)	"Love"[45]	None attested	None attested	Prose Edda
Skaði (Old Norse)	Possibly related to Scandia.[47]	Ullr, Odin, once Njörðr.	Sæmingr	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Ynglinga saga
Snotra (Old Norse)	"The clever one"[48]	None attested	None attested	Prose Edda
Sól (Old Norse), Sunna (Old High German)	"Sun"[49]	Glen		Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Merseburg Incantations
Syn (Old Norse)	"Refusal"[50]	None attested	None attested	Prose Edda
Tanfana (Latinized Germanic)	Unknown	None attested	None attested	Germania, Tamfanae sacrum inscription
Þrúðr (Old Norse)	"Power"[51]	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda, Karlevi Runestone
Þorgerðr Hölgabrúðr (Old Norse)	Literally "Þorgerðr Hölgi's Bride"[52]	None attested	Hölgi, possibly others	Jómsvíkinga saga, Njáls saga, Skáldskaparmál, Færeyinga Saga
Vár (Old Norse)	"Beloved"[53]	None attested	None attested	Poetic Edda, Prose Edda
Vör (Old Norse)	Possibly "the careful one"[54]	None attested	None attested	Prose Edda
Zisa	Possibly related to *Tiwaz	None attested	Possibly Tyr	
[edit]See also

Astrild, a synonym for the Roman deity Amor or Cupid invented and used by Nordic Baroque and Rococo authors
Jofur, a synonym for the Roman deity Jupiter invented and used by Nordic Baroque and Rococo authors

