Hey Dave,
Looks like I finally got your attention! I'll have to try that Gareth Penn trick with other people. Maybe it'll work on the Mayor of San Francisco? He hasn't returned any of my calls so far.
You've obviously been reading my websites, so I won't repeat what I've said already.
The point about Gareth was that he insists on putting up puzzles on his blog GZ 4216; the most interesting puzzle is why Gareth didn't bother to sue Michael O'Hare for publicly holding him up to ridicule in The Washington Monthly article. I want you to imagine that you'd spent almost 30 years of your life accusing someone of being the most notorious uncaught serial killer since Jack the Ripper. Then, one day, that person talks disparagingly about you in an op-ed piece in a national magazine.
So you instantaneously file suit to get his fingerprints and mtDNA, right?
Wrong!
Isaac Asimov once said that he didn't take much pleasure in the scores he got on IQ tests, since he knew how stupid he was in so many areas such tests didn't bother to measure. I feel the same way. It's pointless to make points about Zodiac cryptography if people are ignoring larger issues that are staring them in the face.
Look, The Cryptogram was a fairly easy multiple substitution cipher, which is why I believe Mike Rodelli's hypothesis that some agency (CIA, NSA, FBI, Mensa, American Cryptogram Association) actually solved the puzzle within a few hours, and then The Cryptogram was intentionally altered and put out to see if the killer himself would be stupid enough to point out the discrepancies. This sort of ruse where police put out an altered version of facts or events hoping that a killer will come forward and correct them is ironically called a "key". And Donald Gene Harden was considered a suspect in the immediate aftermath of his sending in the "solution".
Except, of course, that that so-called solution tells us absolutely nothing. We don't know anything more about the killer after The Cryptogram was "solved" than we knew before . . . except for which s