THE CONFESSION
BY____________
SHE WAS YOUNG AND BEAUTIFUL BUT NOW SHE IS BATTERED AND DEAD. SHE IS NOT THE 
FIRST AND SHE WILL NOT BE THE LAST I LAY AWAKE NIGHTS THINKING ABOUT MY NEXT 
VICTIM. MAYBE SHE WILL BE THE BEAUTIFUL BLOND THAT BABYSITS NEAR THE LITTLE 
STORE AND WALKS DOWN THE DARK ALLEY EACH EVENING ABOUT SEVEN. OR MAYBE SHE WILL 
BE THE SHAPELY BRUNETT THAT SAID NO WHEN I ASKED HER FOR A DATE IN HIGH SCHOOL. 
BUT MAYBE IT WILL NOT BE EITHER. BUT I SHALL CUT OFF HER FEMALE PARTS AND 
DEPOSIT THEM FOR THE WHOLE CITY TO SEE. SO DON'T MAKE IT TO EASY FOR ME. KEEP 
YOUR SISTERS, DAUGHTERS, AND WIVES OFF THE STREETS AND ALLEYS. MISS BATES WAS 
STUPID. SHE WENT TO THE SLAUGHTER LIKE A LAMB. SHE DID NOT PUT UP A STRUGGLE. 
BUT I DID. IT WAS A BALL. I FIRST CUT THE MIDDLE WIRE FROM THE DISTRIBUTOR. 
THEN I WAITED FOR HER IN THE LIBRARY AND FOLLOWED HER OUT AFTER ABOUT TWO 
MINUTES. THE BATTERY MUST HAVE BEEN ABOUT DEAD BY THEN. I THEN OFFERED TO HELP. 
SHE WAS THEN VERY WILLING TO TALK TO ME. I TOLD HER THAT MY CAR WAS DOWN THE 
STREET AND THAT I WOULD GIVE HER A LIFT HOME. WHEN WE WERE AWAY FROM THE 
LIBRARY WALKING, I SAID IT WAS ABOUT TIME. SHE ASKED ME, "ABOUT TIME FOR WHAT?" 
I SAID IT WAS ABOUT TIME FOR HER TO DIE. I GRABBED HER AROUND THE NECK WITH MY 
HAND OVER HER MOUTH AND MY OTHER HAND WITH A SMALL KNIFE AT HER THROAT. SHE 
WENT VERY WILLINGLY. HER BREAST FELT WARM AND VERY FIRM UNDER MY HANDS, BUT 
ONLY ONE THING WAS ON MY MIND. MAKING HER PAY FOR ALL THE BRUSH OFFS THAT SHE 
HAD GIVEN ME DURING THE YEARS PRIOR. SHE DIED HARD. SHE SQUIRMED AND SHOOK AS I 
CHOCKED HER, AND HER LIPS TWICHED. SHE LET OUT A SCREAM ONCE AND I KICKED HER 
IN THE HEAD TO SHUT HER UP. I PLUNGED THE KNIFE INTO HER AND IT BROKE. I THEN 
FINISHED THE JOB BY CUTTING HER THROAT. I AM NOT SICK. I AM INSANE. BUT THAT 
WILL NOT STOP THE GAME. THIS LETTER SHOULD BE PUBLISHED FOR ALL TO READ IT. IT 
JUST MIGHT SAVE THAT GIRL IN THE ALLEY. BUT THAT'S UP TO YOU. IT WILL BE ON 
YOUR CONSCIENCE. NOT MINE. YES, I DID MAKE THAT CALL TO YOU ALSO. IT WAS JUST A 
WARNING. BEWARE...I AM STALKING YOUR GIRLS NOW.
CC. CHIEF OF POLICE
ENTERPRISE

Sick of living/unwilling to die
cut.
clean.
if red I
clean.
blood spurting,
dripping,
spilling;
all over her new
dress
oh well
it was red
anyway.
life draining into an
uncertain death.
she won't
die.
this time
someone ll find her.
just wait till
next time.
rh

BATES HAD
TO DIE
THERE WILL
BE MORE
Z


I like killing people because it is so much fun it is more fun than killing 
wild game in the forrest because man is the most dangeroue anamal of all to 
kill something gives me the most thrilling experence it is even better than 
getting your rocks off with a girl the best part of it is that when I die I 
will be reborn in paradice and all the I have killed will become my slaves I 
will not give you my name because you will try to sloi down or stop my 
collecting of slaves for my afterlife ebeorietemethhpiti

Please Rush to Editor

S. F. Chronicle
San Fran. Calif

Please Rush to Editor !

Editor!

Please Rush to Editor

S.F. Examiner
San Fran. Calif.
Please Rush To Editor


Dear Editor
I am the killer of the 2 teenagers last Christmass at Lake Herman + the girl 
last 4th of July. To prove this I shall state some facts which only I + the 
police know.

Christmass
1 brand name of ammo - Super X
2 10 shots fired
3 Boy was on his back with    feet to car
4 Girl was lyeing on right side 
   feet to west

4th July
1 girl was wearing patterned    pants
2 boy was also shot in knee
3 ammo was made by    Western

Here is a cipher or that is part of one. The other 2 parts are being mailed to 
the Vallejo Times + S.F. Chronicle I want you to print this cipher on the frunt 
page by Fry afternoon Aug 1-69. If you do not print this cipher, I will go on a 
kill rampage Fry night. This will last the whole weekend, I will cruse around 
killing people who are alone at night untill Sun Night or un till I kill a 
dozen people.

Please Rush To Editor

Vallejo Times Herald
Vallejo Calif
Please Rush To Editor


Dear Editor
I am the killer of the 2 teen-
agers last Christmass at Lake Herman and the Girl last 4th of July. To Prove this I shall state some facts which only I + the police know

Christmass
1 Brand name of ammo    Super X
2 10 Shots fired
3 Boy was on back feet to car
4 Girl was lyeing on right side 
   feet to west

4th of July 
1 Girl was wearing patterned 
   Pants
2 Boy was also shot in knee
3 Brand name of ammo was    Western

Here is a cyipher or that is 
part of one. the other 2 parts 
have been mailed to the S.F. 
Examiner + the S.F. Chronicle I want you to print this cipher on your frunt page by Fry Afternoon Aug 1-69, If you 
do not do this I will go on a 
kill ram page Fry night that 
will last the whole week end. 
I will cruse around and pick 
off all stray people or coupples that are alone then move on to kill some more untill I have killed over a dozen people.


Dear Editor
This is the murderer of the 2 teenagers last Christmass at Lake Herman + the 
girl on the 4th of July near the golf course in Vallejo To prove I killed them 
I shall state some facts whichonly I + the police know.

Christmass
1 Brand name of ammo 
   Super X
2 10 shots were fired
3 the boy was on his back with his feet to the car
4 the girl was on her right 
   side feet to the west

4th July
1 girl was wearing paterned 
   slacks
2 The boy was also shot in 
   the knee.
3 Brand name of ammo was 
   western

Here is part of a cipher the other 2 parts of this cipher are being mailed to 
the editors of the Vallejo Times and SF Examiner.
I want you to print this cipher on the front page of your paper. In this cipher 
is my idenity.
If you do not print this cipher by the afternoon of Fry.1st of Aug 69, I will 
go on a kill ram-Page Fry. night. I will cruse around all weekend killing lone 
people in the night then move on to kill again, until I end up with a dozen 
people over the weekend.


This is the Zodiac speaking.
In answer to your asking for more details about the good times I have had in 
Vallejo, I shall be very happy to supply even more material. By the way, are 
the police having a good time with the code? If not, tell them to cheer up; 
when they do crack it, they will have me.
On the 4th of July I did not open the car door. The window was rolled down all 
ready. The boy was origionaly sitting in the front seat when I began fireing. 
When I fired the first shot at his head, he leaped backwards at the same time, 
thus spoiling my aim. He ended up on the back seat then the floor in back 
thashing out very violently with his legs; that's how I shot him in the knee. I 
did not leave the cene of the killing with squealing tires + raceing engine as 
described in the Vallejo paper. I drove away quite slowly so as not to draw 
attention to my car. The man who told police that my car was brown was a negro 
about 40-45 rather shabbly dressed. I was in this phone booth having some fun 
with the Vallejo cop when he was walking by. When I hung the phone up the damn 
thing began to ring & that drew his attention to me + my car.
Last Christmass In that epasode the police were wondering how I could shoot + 
hit my victims in the dark. They did not openly state this, but implied this by 
saying it was a well lit night + I could see silowets on the horizon. Bullshit 
that area is srounded by high hills + trees. What I did was tape a small pencel 
flash light to the barrel of my gun. If you notice, in the center of the beam 
of light if you aim it at a wall or ceiling you will see a black or darck spot 
in the center of the circle of light about 3 to 6 inches across. When taped to 
a gun barrel, the bullet will strike in the center of the black dot in the 
light. All I had to do was spray them as if it was a water hose; there was no 
need to use the gun sights. I was not happy to see that I did not get front 
page coverage.

NO ADDRESS


Vallejo
12-20-68
7-4-69
Sept 27-69-6:30
by knife


Please Rush To Editor

S.F. Chronicle
San Fran.
Calif.
Please Rush To Editor


This is the Zodiac speaking.
I am the murderer of the taxi driver over by Washington St + Maple St last 
night, to prove this here is a blood stained piece of his shirt. I am the same 
man who did in the people in the north bay area.
The S.F. Police could have caught me last night if they had searched the park 
properly instead of holding road races with their motorcicles seeing who could 
make the most noise. The car drivers should have just parked their cars and sat 
there quietly waiting for me to come out of cover.
School children make nice targets, I think I shall wipe out a school bus some 
morning. Just shoot out the front tire + then pick off the kiddies as they come 
bouncing out.

Please Rush to Editor

S.F. Chronicle
San Francisco Calif
Please Rush to Editor


This is the Zodiac speaking I though you would need a good laugh before you get 
the bad news you won't get the news for a while yet

PS could you print this new cipher on your frunt page? I get awfully lonely 
when I am ignored, so lonely I could do my Thing!!!!!!

Des July Aug Sept Oct = 7


Please Rush to Editor

S.F. CHRONICLE
San Fran Calif
Please Rush to Editor


This is the Zodiac speaking up to the end of Oct I have killed 7 people. I have 
grown rather angry with the police for their telling lies about me. So I shall 
change the way the collecting of slaves. I shall no longer announce to anyone. 
When I committ my murders, they shall look like routine robberies, killings of 
anger, + a few fake accidents, etc.

The police shall never catch me, because I have been too clever for them.

1 I look like the description passed out only when I do my thing, the rest of 
the time I look entirle different. I shall not tell you what my descise 
consists of when I kill

2 As of yet I have left no fingerprints behind me contrary to what the police 
say in my killings I wear transparent fingertip guards. All it is is 2 coats of 
airplane cement coated on my fingertips -- quite unnoticible + very efective

3 my killing tools have been boughten through the mail order outfits before the 
ban went into efect. Except one & it was bought out of the state. So as you can 
see the police don't have much to work on. If you wonder why I was wipeing the 
cab down I was leaving fake clews for the police to run all over town with, as 
one might say, I gave the cops som bussy work to do to keep them happy. I enjoy 
needling the blue pigs. Hey blue pig I was in the park -- you were useing fire 
trucks to mask the sound of your cruzeing prowl cars. The dogs never came with 
in 2 blocks of me + they were to the west + there was only 2 groups of parking 
about 10 min apart then the motor cicles went by about 150 ft away going from 
south to north west

p.s. 2 cops pulled a goof abot 3 min after I left the cab. I was walking down 
the hill to the park when this cop car pulled up + one of them called me over + 
asked if I saw anyone acting suspicious or strange in the last 5 to 10 min + I 
said yes there was this man who was runnig by waveing a gun & the cops peeled 
rubber + went around the corner as I directed them + I disappeared into the 
park a block + a half away never to be seen again. "must print in paper."

Hey pig doesnt it rile you up to have your noze rubed in your booboos?

If you cops think I'm going to take on a bus the way I stated I was, you 
deserve to have holes in your heads. Take one bag of ammonium nitrate 
fertilizer + 1 gal of stove oil & dump a few bags of gravel on top + then set 
the shit off + will positivily ventalate any thing that should be in the way of 
the blast.

The death machine is all ready made. I would have sent you pictures but you 
would be nasty enough to trace them back to developer + then to me, so I shall 
describe my masterpiece to you. The nice part of it is all the parts can be 
bought on the open market with no questions asked.

1 bat. Pow clock -- will run for aprox 1 year
1 photoelectric switch
2 copper leaf springs
2 6V car bat
1 flash light bulb + reflector
1 mirror
2 18" cardboard tubes black with shoe polish inside + oute

Mirror
bus
Bombs (1 bag each)
6V Bat
6V Bat
bus goes bang car
pass es by ok.

the system checks out from one end to the other in my tests. What you do not 
know is whether the death machine is at the sight or whether it is being stored 
in my basement for future use. I think you do not have the manpower to stop 
this one by continually searching the road sides looking for this thing. + it 
wont do to re roat + re schedule the busses because the bomb can be adapted to 
new conditions.



Have fun!! By the way it could be rather messy if you try to bluff me.

PS. Be shure to print the part I marked out on page 3 or I shall do my thing.

To prove that I am the Zodiac, Ask the Vallejo cop about my electric gun sight 
which I used to start my collecting of slaves.


Mery Xmass + New Year

Mr. Melvin M. Belli
1228 Mtgy
San Fran Calif


Dear Melvin
This is the Zodiac speaking I wish you a happy Christmass. The one thing I ask 
of you is this, please help me. I cannot reach out because of this thing in me 
won't let me. I am finding it extreamly dificult to keep in check I am afraid I 
will loose control again and take my nineth & posibly tenth victom. Please help 
me I am drownding. At the moment the children are safe from the bomb because it 
is so massive to dig in & the triger mech requires so much work to get it 
adjusted just right. But if I hold back too long from no nine I will loose 
complet all controol of my self & set the bomb up. Please help me I can not 
remain in control for much longer.

Editor

Editor
San Fran. Chronicle
San Francisco, Calif.


This is the Zodiac speaking
By the way have you cracked the last cipher I sent you?
My name is --

I am mildly cerous as to how much money you have on my head now. I hope you do 
not think that I was the one who wiped out that blue meannie with a bomb at the 
cop station. Even though I talked about killing school children with one. It 
just wouldn't doo to move in on someone else's teritory. But there is more 
glory in killing a cop than a cid because a cop can shoot back. I have killed 
ten people to date. It would have been a lot more except that my bus bomb was a 
dud. I was swamped out by the rain we had a while back.

The new bomb is set up like this

Sun light in early morning
Bus
Sun
A B
String of Bombs
A
Car Bat
Timer
B

A + B are photoelectric
swiches when sun beam
is broken A closes circut
" " B opens "
which makes B the
cloudy day discon-
-ect so the bomb
won't go off by accid.
PS I hope you have fun trying
to figgure out who I killed
=10 SFPD=0

I hope you enjoy your selves when I have my Blast.

P.S. on back

If you don't want me to have this blast you must do two things. 1 Tell everyone 
about the bus bomb with all the details. 2 I would like to see some nice Zodiac 
butons wandering about town. Every one else has these buttons like, , black 
power, Melvin eats bluber, etc. Well it would cheer me up considerably if I saw 
a lot of people wearing my buton. Please no nasty ones like Melvin's
Thank you 

S.F. Chronicle
San Fran.
Calif.


This is the Zodiac speaking.
I have become very upset with the people of San fran Bay Area. They have not 
complied with my wishes for them to wear some nice  buttons. I promised to 
punish them if they did not comply, by anilating a full School Buss. But now 
school is out for the summer, so I punished them in another way. I shot a man 
sitting in a parked car with a .38.
-12 SFPD-0
The map coupled with this code will tell you where the bomb is set. You have 
untill next Fall to dig it up. 

0 is to be set to Mag. N.
3
6
9


S.F. Chronicle
San Fran. Calif


This is the Zodiac speaking.
I am rather unhappy because you people will not wear some nice  buttons. So I 
now have a little list, starting with the woeman + her baby that I gave a 
rather intersting ride for a couple howers one evening a few months back that 
ended in my burning her car where I found them.

S.F. Chronicle
San Fran. Claif.


This is the Zodiac speaking
Being that you will not wear some nice  buttons, how about wearing some nasty 
buttons. Or any type of  buttons that you can think up. If you do not wear any 
type of  buttons, I shall (on top of everything else) torture all 13 of my 
slaves that I have wateing for me in Paradice. Some I shall tie over ant hills 
and watch them scream + twich and squirm. Others shall have pine splinters 
driven under their nails + then burned. Others shall be placed in cages + fed 
salt beef untill they are gorged then I shall listen to their pleass for water 
and I shall laugh at them. Others will hang by their thumbs + burn in the sun 
then I will rub them down with deep heat to warm them up. Others I shall skin 
them alive + let them run around screaming. And all billiard players I shall 
have them play in a darkened dungen cell with crooked cues + Twisted Shoes. Yes 
I shall have great fun inflicting the most delicious of pain to my slaves
SFPD=0 =13

As some day it may hapen that a victom must be found. I've got a little list. 
I've got a little list, of society offenders who might well be underground who 
would never be missed who would never be missed. There is the pestulentual 
nucences who whrite for autographs, all people who have flabby hands and 
irritating laughs. All children who are up in dates and implore you with im 
platt. All people who are shakeing hands shake hands like that. And all third 
persons who with unspoiling take thoes who insist. They'd none of them be 
missed. They'd none of them be missed. There's a banjo seranader and the others 
of his race and the piano orginast I got him on the list. All people who eat 
pepermint and phomphit in your face, they would never be missed They would 
never be missed And the Idiout who phraises with inthusastic tone of centuries 
but this and every country but his own. And the lady from the provences who 
dress like a guy who doesn't cry and the singurly abnormily the girl who never 
kissed. I don't think she would be missed Im shure she wouldn't be missed. And 
that nice impriest that is rather rife the judicial hummerest I've got him on 
the list. All funny fellows, commic men and clowns of private life. They'd none 
of them be missed. They'd none of them be missed. And uncompromising kind such 
as wachmacallit, thingmebob, and like wise, well - - nevermind, and tut tut tut 
tut, and whashisname, and you know who, but the task of filling up the blanks I 
rather leave up to you. But it really doesn't matter whom you place upon the 
list, for none of them be missed, none of them be missed.

PS. The Mt. Diablo Code concerns Radians & # inches along the radians


San Francisco Chronicle
S.F.
Mon. Oct 5, 1970
Dear Editor,
You'll hate me, but I've got to tell you.
The pace isn't any slower! In fact it's just one big thirteenth
13
'Some of them fought it was horrible'
P.S. THERE ARE REPORTS city police pig cops are closeing in on me. Fk I'm 
crackproof, What is the price tag now?
Zodiac 

sorry no cipher
sorry no cipher

Z

Paul Averly
S.F. Chronicle
5th - Mission
S.F.


PARADICE
SLAVES
By Fire
By Gun
By Knife
By Rope
4-Teen

PEEK-A-BOO
YOU ARE DOOMED!

4-TEEN
BOO!
Z


AIR Mail

The L.A. Times
Los Angeles Calif
Please Rush to Editor
AIR Mail


This is the Zodiac speaking
Like I have allways said, I am crack proof. If the Blue Meannies are evere 
going to catch me, they had best get off their fat asses + do something. 
Because the longer they fiddle + fart around, the more slaves I will collect 
for my after life. I do have to give them credit for stumbling across my 
riverside activity, but they are only finding the easy ones, there are a hell 
of a lot more down there. The reason I'm writing to the Times is this, They 
don't bury me on the back pages like some of the others.
SFPD-0-17+

Zodiac

The Times
S.F. Examiner
San Francisco Chronicle

Att. Paul Averly = ChronicLe


Sierra Club

around in the snow

Sought victim 12
"Peek through the pines,"
pass LAKE TAHOE areas



San Fran. Chronicle
Please Rush To Editor


I saw and think "The Exorcist" was the best saterical comidy that I have ever 
seen. Signed, yours truley:
He plunged himself into the billowy wave and an echo arose from the suicide's 
grave
titwillo titwillo titwillo
PS. If I do not see this note in your paper, I will do something nasty, which 
you know I'm capable of doing.

Me - 37
SFPD - 0


Editor
San Francisco Chronicle
San Francisco, California


Dear Mr. Editor,

Did you know that the initials SLAY (Symbionese Liberation Army) spell "sla," 
an old Norse word meaning "kill."

a friend


Editor
SF Chronicle
5th + Mission
San Fran


"Editor, SF Chronicle, 5th + Mission, San Fran". 

Sirs -- I would like to expression my consternt consternation concerning your 
poor taste + lack of sympathy for the public, as evidenced by your running of 
the ads for the movie "Badlands," featuring the blurb: "In 1959 most people 
were killing time. Kit + Holly were killing people." In light of recent events, 
this kind of murder-glorification can only be deplorable at best (not that 
glorification of violence was ever justifiable) why don't you show some concern 
for public sensibilities + cut the ad?

A citizen


R.P.

Editor
San Francisco Chronicle
San Francisco, California


Editor--

Put Marco back in the, hell-hole from whence it came -- he has a serious 
psychological disorder -- always needs to feel superior. I suggest you refer 
him to a shrink. Meanwhile, cancel the Count Marco column. Since the Count can 
write anonymously, so can I --

The Red Phantom
(red with rage)


Dear Editor This is the Zodiac speaking I am back with you. Tell herb caen I am 
here, I have always been here. That city pig toschi is good ' but I am smarter 
and better he will get tired then leave me alone.I am waiting for a good movie 
about me. who will play me. I am now in control of all things.
             Yours truly:
-guess

   SFPD- 0


THE MIKADO

  OR

  THE TOWN OF TITIPU

  By William S. Gilbert

  Music by Sir Arthur Sullivan



  DRAMATIS PERSONAE.


  THE MIKADO OF JAPAN.
  NANKI-POO (his Son, disguised as a wandering minstrel, and in
       love with Yum-Yum).
  KO-KO (Lord High Executioner of Titipu).
  POOH-BAH (Lord High Everything Else).
  PISH-TISH (a Noble Lord).
  Three Sisters--Wards of Ko-Ko:
       YUM-YUM
       PITTI-SING
       PEEP-BO
  KATISHA (an elderly Lady, in love with Nanki-Poo).
       Chorus of School-girls, Nobles, Guards, and Coolies.



            ACT I.--Courtyard of Ko-Ko's Official Residence.
                          ACT II.-- Ko-Ko's Garden

           First produced at the Savoy Theatre on March 14, 1885.




ACT I.

  SCENE.--Courtyard of Ko-Ko's Palace in Titipu.  Japanese nobles
       discovered standing and sitting in attitudes suggested by
       native drawings.

                            CHORUS OF NOBLES.

       If you want to know who we are,
            We are gentlemen of Japan:
       On many a vase and jar--
            On many a screen and fan,
                 We figure in lively paint:
                 Our attitude's queer and quaint--
                 You're wrong if you think it ain't, oh!

       If you think we are worked by strings,
            Like a Japanese marionette,
       You don't understand these things:
            It is simply Court etiquette.
                 Perhaps you suppose this throng
                 Can't keep it up all day long?
                 If that's your idea, you're wrong, oh!

  Enter Nanki-Poo in great excitement.  He carries a native guitar
       on his back and a bundle of ballads in his hand.

                          RECIT.--NANKI-POO.

       Gentlemen, I pray you tell me
       Where a gentle maiden dwelleth,
       Named Yum-Yum, the ward of Ko-Ko?
       In pity speak, oh speak I pray you!

  A NOBLE.  Why, who are you who ask this question?
  NANK.     Come gather round me, and I'll tell you.

                    SONG and CHORUS--NANKI-POO.

       A wandering minstrel I--
            A thing of shreds and patches,
            Of ballads, songs and snatches,
       And dreamy lullaby!

       My catalogue is long,
            Through every passion ranging,
            And to your humours changing
       I tune my supple song!

            Are you in sentimental mood?
                 I'll sigh with you,
                      Oh, sorrow, sorrow!
            On maiden's coldness do you brood?
                 I'll do so, too--
                      Oh, sorrow, sorrow!
            I'll charm your willing ears
            With songs of lovers' fears,
            While sympathetic tears
                 My cheeks bedew--
                      Oh, sorrow, sorrow!

       But if patriotic sentiment is wanted,
            I've patriotic ballads cut and dried;
       For where'er our country's banner may be planted,
            All other local banners are defied!
       Our warriors, in serried ranks assembled,
            Never quail--or they conceal it if they do--
       And I shouldn't be surprised if nations trembled
            Before the mighty troops of Titipu!

  CHORUS.   We shouldn't be surprised, etc.

  NANK.     And if you call for a song of the sea,
                 We'll heave the capstan round,
            With a yeo heave ho, for the wind is free,
                 Her anchor's a-trip and her helm's a-lee,
            Hurrah for the homeward bound!

  CHORUS.             Yeo-ho--heave ho--
                 Hurrah for the homeward bound!

            To lay aloft in a howling breeze
                 May tickle a landsman's taste,
            But the happiest hour a sailor sees
                 Is when he's down
                 At an inland town,
            With his Nancy on his knees, yeo ho!
                 And his arm around her waist!

  CHORUS.   Then man the capstan--off we go,
                 As the fiddler swings us round,
            With a yeo heave ho,
            And a rum below,
                 Hurrah for the homeward bound!

            A wandering minstrel I, etc.

                       Enter Pish-Tush.

       PISH.  And what may be your business with Yum-Yum?
       NANK.  I'll tell you.  A year ago I was a member of the
  Titipu town band.  It was my duty to take the cap round for
  contributions.  While discharging this delicate office, I saw
  Yum-Yum.  We loved each other at once, but she was betrothed to
  her guardian Ko-Ko, a cheap tailor, and I saw that my suit was
  hopeless.  Overwhelmed with despair, I quitted the town.  Judge
  of my delight when I heard, a month ago, that Ko-Ko had been con-
  demned to death for flirting!  I hurried back at once, in the
  hope of finding Yum-Yum at liberty to listen to my protestations.
       PISH.  It is true that Ko-Ko was condemned to death for
  flirting, but he was reprieved at the last moment, and raised to
  the exalted rank of Lord High Executioner under the following
  remarkable circumstances:

                      SONG--PISH-TUSH and CHORUS.

       Our great Mikado, virtuous man,
       When he to rule our land began,
                 Resolved to try
                 A plan whereby
            Young men might best be steadied.

       So he decreed, in words succinct,
       That all who flirted, leered or winked
       (Unless connubially linked),
            Should forthwith be beheaded.

                 And I expect you'll all agree
                 That he was right to so decree.
                      And I am right,
                      And you are right,
                 And all is right as right can be!

  CHORUS.             And you are right.
                      And we are right, etc

       This stem decree, you'll understand,
       Caused great dismay throughout the land!
                 For young and old
                 And shy and bold
            Were equally affected.
       The youth who winked a roving eye,
       Or breathed a non-connubial sigh,
       Was thereupon condemned to die--
            He usually objected.

                 And you'll allow, as I expect,
                 That he was right to so object.
                      And I am right,
                      And you are right,
                 And everything is quite correct!

  CHORUS.        And you are right,
                 And we are right, etc.

       And so we straight let out on bail
       A convict from the county jail,
                 Whose head was next
                 On some pretext
            Condemned to be mown off,
       And made him Headsman, for we said,
       "Who's next to be decapited
       Cannot cut off another's head
            Until he's cut his own off."

            And we are right, I think you'll say,
            To argue in this kind of way;
                 And I am right,
                 And you are right,
            And all is right--too-looral-lay!

  CHORUS.        And you are right,
                 And we are right, etc.

                                                              [Exeunt
  Chorus.

                               Enter Pooh-Bah.

       NANK.  Ko-Ko, the cheap tailor, Lord High Executioner of
  Titipu! Why, that's the highest rank a citizen can attain!
       POOH.  It is.  Our logical Mikado, seeing no moral
  difference between the dignified judge who condemns a criminal to
  die, and the industrious mechanic who carries out the sentence,
  has rolled the two offices into one, and every judge is now his
  own executioner.
       NANK.  But how good of you (for I see that you are a
  nobleman of the highest rank) to condescend to tell all this to
  me, a mere strolling minstrel!
       POOH.  Don't mention it.  I am, in point of fact, a
  particularly haughty and exclusive person, of pre-Adamite
  ancestral descent.  You will understand this when I tell you that
  I can trace my ancestry back to a protoplasmal primordial atomic
  globule.  Consequently, my family pride is something
  inconceivable.  I can't help it.  I was born sneering.  But I
  struggle hard to overcome this defect.  I mortify my pride
  continually.  When all the great officers of State resigned in a
  body because they were too proud to serve under an ex-tailor, did
  I not unhesitatingly accept all their posts at once?
       PISH.  And the salaries attached to them?  You did.
       POOH.  It is consequently my degrading duty to serve this
  upstart as First Lord of the Treasury, Lord Chief Justice,
  Commander-in-Chief, Lord High Admiral, Master of the Buckhounds,
  Groom of the Back Stairs, Archbishop of Titipu, and Lord Mayor,
  both acting and elect, all rolled into one.  And at a salary!  A
  Pooh-Bah paid for his services!  I a salaried minion!  But I do
  it!  It revolts me, but I do it!
       NANK.  And it does you credit.
       POOH.  But I don't stop at that.  I go and dine with
  middle-class people on reasonable terms.  I dance at cheap
  suburban parties for a moderate fee.  I accept refreshment at any
  hands, however lowly.  I also retail State secrets at a very low
  figure.  For instance, any further information about Yum-Yum
  would come under the head of a State secret.  (Nanki-Poo takes his
  hint, and gives him money.)  (Aside.)  Another insult and, I
  think, a light one!

           SONG--POOH-BAH with NANKI-POO and PISH-TUSH.

                 Young man, despair,
                      Likewise go to,
                 Yum-Yum the fair
                      You must not woo.
                      It will not do:
                      I'm sorry for you,
                 You very imperfect ablutioner!
                      This very day
                           From school Yum-Yum
                      Will wend her way,
                           And homeward come,
                           With beat of drum
                           And a rum-tum-tum,
                 To wed the Lord High executioner!
                      And the brass will crash,
                           And the trumpets bray,
                      And they'll cut a dash
                           On their wedding day.
                 She'll toddle away, as all aver,
                 With the Lord High Executioner '

  NANK. and POOH.  And the brass will crash, etc.

                 It's a hopeless case,
                      As you may see,
                 And in your place
                      Away I'd flee;
                      But don't blame me--
                      I'm sorry to be
                 Of your pleasure a diminutioner.
                      They'll vow their pact
                           Extremely soon,
                      In point of fact
                           This afternoon.
                           Her honeymoon
                           With that buffoon
                 At seven commences, so you shun her!

  ALL.                And the brass will crash, etc.
                                                             [Exit
  Pish-Tush.

                       RECIT.--NANKI-POO and POOH-BAH.

  NANK.     And I have journeyed for a month, or nearly,
            To learn that Yum-Yum, whom I love so dearly,
            This day to Ko-Ko is to be united!
  POOH.     The fact appears to be as you've recited:
            But here he comes, equipped as suits his station;
            He'll give you any further information.
                                              [Exeunt Pooh-Bah and
  Nanki-Poo.

                           Enter Chorus of Nobles.

            Behold the Lord High Executioner
                 A personage of noble rank and title--
            A dignified and potent officer,
                 Whose functions are particularly vital!
                      Defer, defer,
                 To the Lord High Executioner!

                        Enter Ko-Ko attended.

                             SOLO--KO-KO.

       Taken from the county jail
            By a set of curious chances;
       Liberated then on bail,
            On my own recognizances;
       Wafted by a favouring gale
            As one sometimes is in trances,
       To a height that few can scale,
            Save by long and weary dances;
       Surely, never had a male
            Under such like circumstances
       So adventurous a tale,
            Which may rank with most romances.

  CHORUS.             Defer, defer,
            To the Lord High Executioner, etc.

       KO.  Gentlemen, I'm much touched by this reception.  I can
  only trust that by strict attention to duty I shall ensure a
  continuance of those favours which it will ever be my study to
  deserve.  If I should ever be called upon to act professionally,
  I am happy to think that there will be no difficulty in finding
  plenty of people whose loss will be a distinct gain to society at
  large.

               SONG--KO-KO with CHORUS OF MEN.

  As some day it may happen that a victim must be found,
       I've got a little list--I've got a little list
  Of society offenders who might well be underground,
       And who never would be missed--who never would be missed!
  There's the pestilential nuisances who write for autographs--
  All people who have flabby hands and irritating laughs--
  All children who are up in dates, and floor you with 'em flat--
  All persons who in shaking hands, shake hands with you like
       that--
  And all third persons who on spoiling tte--ttes insist--
       They'd none of 'em be missed--they'd none of 'em be missed!

  CHORUS.   He's got 'em on the list--he's got 'em on the list;
                 And they'll none of 'em be missed--they'll none of
                      'em be missed.
  There's the banjo serenader, and the others of his race,
       And the piano-organist--I've got him on the list!
  And the people who eat peppermint and puff it in your face,
       They never would be missed--they never would be missed!
  Then the idiot who praises, with enthusiastic tone,
  All centuries but this, and every country but his own;
  And the lady from the provinces, who dresses like a guy,
  And who "doesn't think she waltzes, but would rather like to
       try";
  And that singular anomaly, the lady novelist--
       I don't think she'd be missed--I'm sure she'd not he missed!

  CHORUS.   He's got her on the list--he's got her on the list;
                 And I don't think she'll be missed--I'm sure
                      she'll not be missed!

  And that Nisi Prius nuisance, who just now is rather rife,
       The Judicial humorist--I've got him on the list!
  All funny fellows, comic men, and clowns of private life--
       They'd none of 'em be missed--they'd none of 'em be missed.
  And apologetic statesmen of a compromising kind,
  Such as--What d'ye call him--Thing'em-bob, and
       likewise--Never-mind,
  And 'St--'st--'st--and What's-his-name, and also You-know-who--
  The task of filling up the blanks I'd rather leave to you.
  But it really doesn't matter whom you put upon the list,
       For they'd none of 'em be missed--they'd none of 'em be
            missed!

  CHORUS.   You may put 'em on the list--you may put 'em on the
                 list;
                 And they'll none of 'em be missed--they'll none of
                      'em be missed!

                           Enter Pooh-Bah.

       KO.  Pooh-Bah, it seems that the festivities in connection
  with my approaching marriage must last a week.  I should like to
  do it handsomely, and I want to consult you as to the amount I
  ought to spend upon them.
       POOH.  Certainly.  In which of my capacities?  As First Lord
  of the Treasury, Lord Chamberlain, Attorney General, Chancellor
  of the Exchequer, Privy Purse, or Private Secretary?
       KO.  Suppose we say as Private Secretary.
       POOH.  Speaking as your Private Secretary, I should say
  that, as the city will have to pay for it, don't stint yourself,
  do it well.
       KO.  Exactly--as the city will have to pay for it.  That is
  your advice.
       POOH.  As Private Secretary.  Of course you will understand
  that, as Chancellor of the Exchequer, I am bound to see that due
  economy is observed.
       KO.  Oh!  But you said just now "Don't stint yourself, do it
  well".
       POOH.  As Private Secretary.
       KO.  And now you say that due economy must be observed.
       POOH.  As Chancellor of the Exchequer.
       KO.  I see.  Come over here, where the Chancellor can't hear
  us.  (They cross the stage.)  Now, as my Solicitor, how do you
  advise me to deal with this difficulty?
       POOH.  Oh, as your Solicitor, I should have no hesitation in
  saying "Chance it----"
       KO.  Thank you.  (Shaking his hand.)  I will.
       POOH.  If it were not that, as Lord Chief Justice, I am
  bound to see that the law isn't violated.
       KO.  I see.  Come over here where the Chief Justice can't
  hear us.  (They cross the stage.)  Now, then, as First Lord of
  the Treasury?
       POOH.  Of course, as First Lord of the Treasury, I could
  propose a special vote that would cover all expenses, if it were
  not that, as Leader of the Opposition, it would be my duty to
  resist it, tooth and nail.  Or, as Paymaster General, I could so
  cook the accounts that, as Lord High Auditor, I should never
  discover the fraud.  But then, as Archbishop of Titipu, it would
  be my duty to denounce my dishonesty and give myself into my own
  custody as first Commissioner of Police.
       KO.  That's extremely awkward.
       POOH.  I don't say that all these distinguished people
  couldn't be squared; but it is right to tell you that they
  wouldn't be sufficiently degraded in their own estimation unless
  they were insulted with a very considerable bribe.
       KO.  The matter shall have my careful consideration.  But my
  bride and her sisters approach, and any little compliment on your
  part, such as an abject grovel in a characteristic Japanese
  attitude, would be esteemed a favour.
       POOH.  No money, no grovel!
                                                            [Exeunt
  together.

  Enter procession of Yum-Yum's schoolfellows, heralding Yum-Yum,
       Peep-Bo, and Pitti-Sing.

                         CHORUS OF GIRLS.

            Comes a train of little ladies
                 From scholastic trammels free,
            Each a little bit afraid is,
                 Wondering what the world can be!

            Is it but a world of trouble--
                 Sadness set to song?
            Is its beauty but a bubble
                 Bound to break ere long?

            Are its palaces and pleasures
                 Fantasies that fade?
            And the glory of its treasures
                 Shadow of a shade?

            Schoolgirls we, eighteen and under,
                 From scholastic trammels free,
            And we wonder--how we wonder!--
                 What on earth the world can be!

                                TRIO.

        YUM-YUM, PEEP-BO, and PITTI-SING, with CHORUS OF GIRLS.

  THE THREE.     Three little maids from school are we,
            Pert as a school-girl well can be,
            Filled to the brim with girlish glee,
                 Three little maids from school!
  YUM-YUM.  Everything is a source of fun.  (Chuckle.)
  PEEP-BO.  Nobody's safe, for we care for none!  (Chuckle.)
  PITTI-SING.    Life is a joke that's just begun! (Chuckle.)
  THE THREE.     Three little maids from school!
  ALL (dancing). Three little maids who, all unwary,
                 Come from a ladies' seminary,
                 Freed from its genius tutelary--
  THE THREE (suddenly demure).  Three little maids from school!

  YUM-YUM.       One little maid is a bride, Yum-Yum--
  PEEP-BO.       Two little maids in attendance come--
  PITTI-SING.    Three little maids is the total sum.
  THE THREE.          Three little maids from school!
  YUM-YUM.       From three little maids take one away.
  PEEP-BO.       Two little maids remain, and they--
  PITTI-SING.    Won't have to wait very long, they say--
  THE THREE.          Three little maids from school!
  ALL (dancing). Three little maids who, all unwary,
                 Come from a ladies' seminary,
                 Freed from its genius tutelary--
  THE THREE (suddenly demure).  Three little maids from school!

                      Enter Ko-Ko and Pooh-Bah.

       KO.  At last, my bride that is to be!  (About to embrace
  her.)
       YUM.  You're not going to kiss me before all these people?
       KO.  Well, that was the idea.
       YUM (aside to Peep-Bo).  It seems odd, doesn't it?
       PEEP.  It's rather peculiar.
       PITTI.  Oh, I expect it's all right.  Must have a beginning,
  you know.
       YUM.  Well, of course I know nothing about these things; but
  I've no objection if it's usual.
       KO.  Oh, it's quite usual, I think.  Eh, Lord Chamberlain?
  (Appealing to Pooh-Bah.)
       POOH.  I have known it done.  (Ko-Ko embraces her.)
       YUM.  Thank goodness that's over!  (Sees Nanki-Poo, and
  rushes to him.)  Why, that's never you?  (The three Girls rush to
  him and shake his hands, all speaking at once.)
       YUM.  Oh, I'm so glad! I haven't seen you for ever so long,
  and I'm right at the top of the school, and I've got three
  prizes, and I've come home for good, and I'm not going back any
  more!
       PEEP.  And have you got an engagement?--Yum-Yum's got one,
  but she doesn't like it, and she'd ever so much rather it was
  you!  I've come home for good, and I'm not going back any more!
       PITTI.  Now tell us all the news, because you go about
  everywhere, and we've been at school, but, thank goodness, that's
  all over now, and we've come home for good, and we're not going
  back any more!

  (These three speeches are spoken together in one breath.)

       KO.  I beg your pardon.  Will you present me?
       YUM.  Oh, this is the musician who used--
       PEEP.  Oh, this is the gentleman-who used--
       PITTI.  Oh, it is only Nanki-Poo who used--
       KO.  One at a time, if you please.
       YUM.  Oh, if you please he's the gentleman who used to play
  so beautifully on the--on the--
       PITTI.  On the Marine Parade.
       YUM.  Yes, I think that was the name of the instrument.
       NANK.  Sir, I have the misfortune to love your ward,
  Yum-Yum--oh, I know I deserve your anger!
       KO.  Anger! not a bit, my boy.  Why, I love her myself.
  Charming little girl, isn't she?  Pretty eyes, nice hair.  Taking
  little thing, altogether.  Very glad to hear my opinion backed by
  a competent authority.  Thank you very much.  Good-bye.  (To
  Pish-Tush.)  Take him away.  (Pish-Tush removes him.)
       PITTI (who has been examining Pooh-Bah).  I beg your pardon,
  but what is this?  Customer come to try on?
       KO.  That is a Tremendous Swell.
       PITTI.  Oh, it's alive.  (She starts back in alarm.)
       POOH.  Go away, little girls.  Can't talk to little girls
  like you.  Go away, there's dears.
       KO.  Allow me to present you, Pooh-Bah.  These are my three
  wards.  The one in the middle is my bride elect.
       POOH.  What do you want me to do to them?  Mind, I will not
  kiss them.
       KO.  No, no, you shan't kiss them; a little bow--a mere
  nothing--you needn't mean it, you know.
       POOH.  It goes against the grain.  They are not young
  ladies, they are young persons.
       KO.  Come, come, make an effort, there's a good nobleman.
       POOH. (aside to Ko-Ko).  Well, I shan't mean it.  (with a
  great effort.)  How de do, little girls, how de do?  (Aside.)
  Oh, my protoplasmal ancestor!
       KO.  That's very good.  (Girls indulge in suppressed
  laughter.)
       POOH.  I see nothing to laugh at.  It is very painful to me
  to have to say "How de do, little girls, how de do?" to young
  persons.  I'm not in the habit of saying "How de do, little
  girls, how de do?" to anybody under the rank of a Stockbroker.
       KO.  (aside to girls).  Don't laugh at him, he can't help
  it--he's under treatment for it.  (Aside to Pooh-Bah.)  Never mind
  them, they don't understand the delicacy of your position.
       POOH.  We know how delicate it is, don't we?
       KO.  I should think we did!  How a nobleman of your
  importance can do it at all is a thing I never can, never shall
  understand.
                                                 [Ko-Ko retires and
  goes off.

                        QUARTET AND CHORUS OF GIRLS.

                 YUM-YUM, PEEP-BO, PITTI-SING, and POOH-BAH.

  YUM, PEEP.     So please you, Sir, we much regret
  and PITTI.     If we have failed in etiquette
                 Towards a man of rank so high--
                 We shall know better by and by.
  YUM.           But youth, of course, must have its fling,
                           So pardon us,
                           So pardon us,
  PITTI.         And don't, in girlhood's happy spring,
                           Be hard on us,
                           Be hard on us,
                 If we're inclined to dance and sing.
                           Tra la la, etc.  (Dancing.)
  CHORUS OF GIRLS.    But youth, of course, etc.
  POOH.          I think you ought to recollect
                 You cannot show too much respect
                 Towards the highly titled few;
                 But nobody does, and why should you?
                 That youth at us should have its fling,
                           Is hard on us,
                           Is hard on us;
                 To our prerogative we cling--
                           So pardon us,
                           So pardon us,
                 If we decline to dance and sing.
                           Tra la la, etc.  (Dancing.)
  CHORUS OF GIRLS..  But youth, of course, must have its fling, etc.

                                                     [Exeunt all but
  Yum-Yum.

                              Enter Nanki-Poo.

       NANK.  Yum-Yum, at last we are alone!  I have sought you
  night and day for three weeks, in the belief that your guardian
  was beheaded, and I find that you are about to be married to him
  this afternoon!
       YUM.  Alas, yes!
       NANK.  But you do not love him?
       YUM.  Alas, no!
       NANK.  Modified rapture!  But why do you not refuse him?
       YUM.  What good would that do?  He's my guardian, and he
  wouldn't let me marry you!
       NANK.  But I would wait until you were of age!
       YUM.  You forget that in Japan girls do not arrive at years
  of discretion until they are fifty.
       NANK.  True; from seventeen to forty-nine are considered
  years of indiscretion.
       YUM.  Besides--a wandering minstrel, who plays a wind
  instrument outside tea-houses, is hardly a fitting husband for
  the ward of a Lord High Executioner.
       NANK.  But---- (Aside.)  Shall I tell her?  Yes!  She will
  not betray me!  (Aloud.)  What if it should prove that, after
  all, I am no musician?
       YUM.  There!  I was certain of it, directly I heard you
  play!
       NANK.  What if it should prove that I am no other than the
  son of his Majesty the Mikado?
       YUM.  The son of the Mikado!  But why is your Highness
  disguised?  And what has your Highness done?  And will your
  Highness promise never to do it again?
       NANK.  Some years ago I had the misfortune to captivate
  Katisha, an elderly lady of my father's Court.  She misconstrued
  my customary affability into expressions of affection, and
  claimed me in marriage, under my father's law.  My father, the
  Lucius Junius Brutus of his race, ordered me to marry her within
  a week, or perish ignominiously on the scaffold.  That night I
  fled his Court, and, assuming the disguise of a Second Trombone,
  I joined the band in which you found me when I had the happiness
  of seeing you!  (Approaching her.)
       YUM.  (retreating).  If you please, I think your Highness
  had better not come too near.  The laws against flirting are
  excessively severe.
       NANK.  But we are quite alone, and nobody can see us.
       YUM.  Still, that don't make it right.  To flirt is capital.
       NANK.  It is capital!
       YUM.  And we must obey the law.
       NANK.  Deuce take the law!
       YUM.  I wish it would, but it won't!
       NANK.  If it were not for that, how happy we might be!
       YUM.  Happy indeed!
       NANK.  If it were not for the law, we should now be sitting
  side by side, like that.  (Sits by her.)
       YUM.  Instead of being obliged to sit half a mile off, like
  that.  (Crosses and sits at other side of stage.)
       NANK.  We should be gazing into each other's eyes, like
  that.  (Gazing at her sentimentally.)
       YUM.  Breathing sighs of unutterable love--like that.
  (Sighing and gazing lovingly at him.)
       NANK.  With our arms round each other's waists, like that.
  (Embracing her.)
       YUM.  Yes, if it wasn't for the law.
       NANK.  If it wasn't for the law.
       YUM.  As it is, of course we couldn't do anything of the
  kind.
       NANK.  Not for worlds!
       YUM.  Being engaged to Ko-Ko, you know!
       NANK.  Being engaged to Ko-Ko!

                     DUET--YUM-YUM and NANKI-POO.

  NANK.     Were you not to Ko-Ko plighted,
                 I would say in tender tone,
            "Loved one, let us be united--
                 Let us be each other's own!"
            I would merge all rank and station,
                 Worldly sneers are nought to us,
            And, to mark my admiration,
                 I would kiss you fondly thus-- (Kisses her.)
  BOTH.     I/He would kiss you/me fondly thus-- (Kiss.)
  YUM.      But as I'm engaged to Ko-Ko,
            To embrace you thus, con fuoco,
            Would distinctly be no giuoco,
            And for yam I should get toko--

  BOTH.          Toko, toko, toko, toko!

  NANK.     So, In spite of all temptation,
                 Such a theme I'll not discuss,
            And on no consideration
                 Will I kiss you fondly thus-- (Kissing her.)
            Let me make it clear to you,
            This is what I'll never do!
                 This, oh, this, oh, this, oh, this,--(Kissing
                      her.)

  TOGETHER. This, oh, this, etc.

                                              [Exeunt in opposite
  directions.

                                Enter Ko-Ko.

       KO.  (looking after Yum-Yum).  There she goes!  To think how
  entirely my future happiness is wrapped up in that little parcel!
  Really, it hardly seems worth while!  Oh, matrimony!-- (Enter
  Pooh-Bah and Pish-Tush.)  Now then, what is it?  Can't you see I'm
  soliloquizing?  You have interrupted an apostrophe, sir!
       PISH.  I am the bearer of a letter from his Majesty the
  Mikado.
       KO.  (taking it from him reverentially).  A letter from the
  Mikado!  What in the world can he have to say to me?  (Reads
  letter.)  Ah, here it is at last!  I thought it would come sooner
  or later!  The Mikado is struck by the fact that no executions
  have taken place in Titipu for a year, and decrees that unless
  somebody is beheaded within one month the post of Lord High
  Executioner shall be abolished, and the city reduced to the rank
  of a village!
       PISH.   But that will involve us all in irretrievable ruin!
       KO.  Yes.  There is no help for it, I shall have to execute
  somebody at once.  The only question is, who shall it be?
       POOH.  Well, it seems unkind to say so, but as you're
  already under sentence of death for flirting, everything seems to
  point to you.
       KO.  To me?  What are you talking about?  I can't execute
  myself.
       POOH.  Why not?
       KO.  Why not?   Because, in the first place, self
  decapitation is an extremely difficult, not to say dangerous,
  thing to attempt; and, in the second, it's suicide, and suicide
  is a capital offence.
       POOH.  That is so, no doubt.
       PISH.  We might reserve that point.
       POOH.  True, it could be argued six months hence, before the
  full Court.
       KO.  Besides, I don't see how a man can cut off his own
  head.
       POOH.  A man might try.
       PISH.  Even if you only succeeded in cutting it half off,
  that would be something.
       POOH.  It would be taken as an earnest of your desire to
  comply with the Imperial will.
       KO.  No.  Pardon me, but there I am adamant.  As official
  Headsman, my reputation is at stake, and I can't consent to
  embark on a professional operation unless I see my way to a
  successful result.
       POOH.  This professional conscientiousness is highly
  creditable to you, but it places us in a very awkward position.
       KO.  My good sir, the awkwardness of your position is grace
  itself compared with that of a man engaged in the act of cutting
  off his own head.
       PISH.  I am afraid that, unless you can obtain a substitute
  ----
       KO.  A substitute?  Oh, certainly--nothing easier.  (To
  Pooh-Bah.)  Pooh-Bah, I appoint you Lord High Substitute.
       POOH.  I should be delighted.  Such an appointment would
  realize my fondest dreams.  But no, at any sacrifice, I must set
  bounds to my insatiable ambition!

                                     TRIO

        Ko-Ko                     Pooh-Bah                Pish-Tush

  My brain it teams          I am so proud,            I heard one
  day
  With endless schemes       If I allowed              A gentleman
  say
  Both good and new          My family pride           That criminals
  who
  For Titipu;                To be my guide,           Are cut in two
  But if I flit,             I'd volunteer             Can hardly
  feel
  The benefit                To quit this sphere       The fatal
  steel,
  That I'd diffuse           Instead of you            And so are
  slain
  The town would lose!       In a minute or two,       Without much
  pain.
  Now every man              But family pride          If this is
  true,
  To aid his clan            Must be denied,           It's jolly for
  you;
  Should plot and plan       And set aside,            Your courage
  screw
  As best he can,            And mortified.            To bid us
  adieu,
       And so,                     And so,                  And go
       Although                    Although                 And show
  I'm ready to go,           I wish to go,              Both friend
  and foe
  Yet recollect              And greatly pine           How much you
  dare.
  'Twere disrespect          To brightly shine,         I'm quite
  aware
  Did I neglect              And take the line          It's your
  affair,
  To thus effect             Of a hero fine,            Yet I declare
  This aim direct,           With grief condign         I'd take your
  share,
  So I object--              I must decline--           But I don't
  much care--
  So I object--              I must decline--           I don't much
  care--
  So I object--              I must decline--           I don't much
  care--


  ALL. To sit in solemn silence in a dull, dark dock,
       In a pestilential prison, with a life-long lock,
       Awaiting the sensation of a short, sharp shock,
       From a cheap and chippy chopper on a big black block!
                                                      [Exeunt Pooh.
  and Pish.

       KO.  This is simply appalling!  I, who allowed myself to be
  respited at the last moment, simply in order to benefit my native
  town, am now required to die within a month, and that by a man
  whom I have loaded with honours!  Is this public gratitude?  Is
  this---  (Enter Nanki-Poo, with a rope in his hands.)  Go away,
  sir!  How dare you?  Am I never to be permitted to soliloquize?
       NANK.  Oh, go on--don't mind me.
       KO.  What are you going to do with that rope?
       NANK.  I am about to terminate an unendurabIe existence.
       KO.  Terminate your existence?  Oh, nonsense!  What for?
       NANK.  Because you are going to marry the girl I adore.
       KO.  Nonsense, sir.  I won't permit it.  I am a humane man,
  and if you attempt anything of the kind I shall order your
  instant arrest.  Come, sir, desist at once or I summon my guard.
       NANK.  That's absurd.  If you attempt to raise an alarm, I
  instantly perform the Happy Despatch with this dagger.
       KO.  No, no, don't do that.  This is horrible!  (Suddenly.)
  Why, you cold-blooded scoundrel, are you aware that, in taking
  your life, you are committing a crime which--which--which is----
  Oh!  (Struck by an idea.)  Substitute!
       NANK.  What's the matter?
       KO.  Is it absolutely certain that you are resolved to die?
       NANK.  Absolutely!
       KO.  Will nothing shake your resolution?
       NANK.  Nothing.
       KO.  Threats, entreaties, prayers--all useless?
       NANK.  All!  My mind is made up.
       KO.  Then, if you really mean what you say, and if you are
  absolutely resolved to die, and if nothing whatever will shake
  your determination--don't spoil yourself by committing suicide,
  but be beheaded handsomely at the hands of the Public
  Executioner!
       NANK.  I don't see how that would benefit me.
       KO.  You don't?  Observe: you'll have a month to live, and
  you'll live like a fighting-cock at my expense.  When the day
  comes there'll be a grand public ceremonial--you'll be the
  central figure--no one will attempt to deprive you of that
  distinction.  There'll be a procession--bands--dead march--bells
  tolling--all the girls in tears--Yum-Yum distracted--then, when
  it's all over, general rejoicings, and a display of fireworks in
  the evening.  You won't see them, but they'll be there all the
  same.
       NANK.  Do you think Yum-Yum would really be distracted at my
  death?
       KO.  I am convinced of it.  Bless you, she's the most
  tender-hearted little creature alive.
       NANK.  I should be sorry to cause her pain.  Perhaps, after
  all, if I were to withdraw from Japan, and travel in Europe for a
  couple of years, I might contrive to forget her.
       KO.  Oh, I don't think you could forget Yum-Yum so easily;
  and, after all, what is more miserable than a love-blighted life?
       NANK.  True.
       KO.  Life without Yum-Yum--why, it seems absurd!
       NANK.  And yet there are a good many people in the world who
  have to endure it.
       KO.  Poor devils, yes!  You are quite right not to be of
  their number.
       NANK.  (suddenly).  I won't be of their number!
       KO.  Noble fellow!
       NANK.  I'll tell you how we'll manage it.  Let me marry
  Yum-Yum to-morrow, and in a month you may behead me.
       KO.  No, no.  I draw the line at Yum-Yum.
       NANK.  Very good.  If you can draw the line, so can I.
  (Preparing rope.)
       KO.  Stop, stop--listen one moment--be reasonable.  How can
  I consent to your marrying Yum-Yum if I'm going to marry her
  myself?
       NANK.  My good friend, she'll be a widow in a month, and you
  can marry her then.
       KO.  That's true, of course.  I quite see that.  But, dear
  me! my position during the next month will be most
  unpleasant--most unpleasant.
       NANK.  Not half so unpleasant as my position at the end of
  it.
       KO.  But--dear me!--well--I agree--after all, it's only
  putting off my wedding for a month.  But you won't prejudice her
  against me, will you?  You see, I've educated her to be my wife;
  she's been taught to regard me as a wise and good man.  Now I
  shouldn't like her views on that point disturbed.
       NANK.  Trust me, she shall never learn the truth from me.

                                   FINALE.

                   Enter Chorus, Pooh-Bah, and Pish-Tush.

                                   CHORUS.

                      With aspect stern
                           And gloomy stride,
                      We come to learn
                           How you decide.

                      Don't hesitate
                           Your choice to name,
                      A dreadful fate
                           You'll suffer all the same.

  POOH.     To ask you what you mean to do we punctually appear.
  KO.       Congratulate me, gentlemen, I've found a Volunteer!
  ALL.      The Japanese equivalent for Hear, Hear, Hear!
  KO. (presenting him).    'Tis Nanki-Poo!
  ALL.                     Hail, Nanki-Poo!
  KO.                      I think he'll do?
  ALL.                     Yes, yes, he'll do!

  KO.       He yields his life if I'll Yum-Yum surrender.
            Now I adore that girl with passion tender,
            And could not yield her with a ready will,
                      Or her allot,
                      If I did not
            Adore myself with passion tenderer still!

               Enter Yum-Yum, Peep-Bo, and Pitti-Sing.

  ALL.                Ah, yes!
            He loves himself with passion tenderer still!
  KO.  (to Nanki-Poo).          Take her--she's yours!

  [Exit Ko-Ko

                                  ENSEMBLE.

  NANKI-POO.     The threatened cloud has passed away,
  YUM-YUM.       And brightly shines the dawning day;
  NANKI-POO.     What though the night may come too soon,
  YUM-YUM.       There's yet a month of afternoon!

                NANKI-POO, POOH-BAH, YUM-YUM, PITTI-SING,
                               and PEEP-BO.

                      Then let the throng
                           Our joy advance,
                      With laughing song
                           And merry dance,

  CHORUS.        With joyous shout and ringing cheer,
                 Inaugurate our brief career!

  PITTI-SING.    A day, a week, a month, a year--
  YUM.           Or far or near, or far or near,
  POOH.          Life's eventime comes much too soon,
  PITTI-SING.    You'll live at least a honeymoon!

  ALL.           Then let the throng, etc.

  CHORUS.        With joyous shout, etc.

                         SOLO--POOH-BAH.

            As in a month you've got to die,
                 If Ko-Ko tells us true,
            'Twere empty compliment to cry
                 "Long life to Nanki-Poo!"
            But as one month you have to live
                 As fellow-citizen,
            This toast with three times three we'll give--
                 "Long life to you--till then!"

                                                              [Exit
  Pooh-Bah.

  CHORUS.   May all good fortune prosper you,
            May you have health and riches too,
            May you succeed in all you do!
                 Long life to you--till then!

                              (Dance.)

                  Enter Katisha melodramatically

  KAT.      Your revels cease!  Assist me, all of you!
  CHORUS.   Why, who is this whose evil eyes
            Rain blight on our festivities?
  KAT.      I claim my perjured lover, Nanki-Poo!
            Oh, fool! to shun delights that never cloy!
  CHORUS.   Go, leave thy deadly work undone!
  KAT.      Come back, oh, shallow fool! come back to joy!
  CHORUS.   Away, away! ill-favoured one!

  NANK.  (aside to Yum-Yum).  Ah!
                 'Tis Katisha!
            The maid of whom I told you.  (About to go.)

  KAT. (detaining him).   No!
            You shall not go,
            These arms shall thus enfold you!

                          SONG--KATISHA.

  KAT.  (addressing Nanki-Poo).
            Oh fool, that fleest
                 My hallowed joys!
            Oh blind, that seest
                 No equipoise!
            Oh rash, that judgest
                 From half, the whole!
            Oh base, that grudgest
                 Love's lightest dole!
                      Thy heart unbind,
                      Oh fool, oh blind!
                      Give me my place,
                      Oh rash, oh base!

  CHORUS.   If she's thy bride, restore her place,
            Oh fool, oh blind, oh rash, oh base!

  KAT.  (addressing Yum-Yum).
                 Pink cheek, that rulest
                      Where wisdom serves!
                 Bright eye, that foolest
                      Heroic nerves!
                 Rose lip, that scornest
                      Lore-laden years!
                 Smooth tongue, that warnest
                      Who rightly hears!
                           Thy doom is nigh.
                           Pink cheek, bright eye!
                           Thy knell is rung,
                           Rose lip, smooth tongue!

  CHORUS.        If true her tale, thy knell is rung,
                 Pink cheek, bright eye, rose lip, smooth tongue!

  PITTI-SING.    Away, nor prosecute your quest--
                 From our intention, well expressed,
                      You cannot turn us!
                 The state of your connubial views
                 Towards the person you accuse
                      Does not concern us!
                 For he's going to marry Yum-Yum--
  ALL.                               Yum-Yum!
  PITTI.              Your anger pray bury,
                      For all will be merry,
                 I think you had better succumb--
  ALL.                               Cumb--cumb!
  PITTI.              And join our expressions of glee.
                 On this subject I pray you be dumb--
  ALL.                               Dumb--dumb.
  PITTI.              You'll find there are many
                      Who'll wed for a penny--
                 The word for your guidance is "Mum"--
  ALL.                               Mum--mum!
  PITTI.         There's lots of good fish in the sea!

  ALL.           On this subject we pray you be dumb, etc.

                             SOLO--KATISHA.

                 The hour of gladness
                      Is dead and gone;
                 In silent sadness
                      I live alone!
                 The hope I cherished
                      All lifeless lies,
                 And all has perished
                      Save love, which never dies!
            Oh, faithless one, this insult you shall rue!
            In vain for mercy on your knees you'll sue.
            I'll tear the mask from your disguising!

  NANK.  (aside).          Now comes the blow!
  KAT.           Prepare yourselves for news surprising!
  NANK.  (aside).          How foil my foe?
  KAT.           No minstrel he, despite bravado!
  YUM.  (aside, struck by an idea).  Ha! ha! I know!
  KAT.           He is the son of your----

  (Nanki-Poo, Yum-Yum, and Chorus, interrupting, sing Japanese words,
       to drown her voice.)

                 O ni! bikkuri shakkuri to!
  KAT.      In vain you interrupt with this tornado!
            He is the only son of your----
  ALL.           O ni! bikkuri shakkuri to!
  KAT.      I'll spoil----
  ALL.           O ni! bikkuri shakkuri to!
  KAT.                     Your gay gambado!
            He is the son----
  ALL.           O ni! bikkuri shakkuri to!
  KAT.                     Of your----
  ALL.           O ni! bikkuri shakkuri to!
  KAT.      The son of your----
  ALL.           O ni! bikkuri shakkuri to! oya! oya!

                                    ENSEMBLE.


                  KATISHA.                        THE OTHERS.

       Ye torrents roar!                       We'll hear no more,
            Ye tempests howl!                       Ill-omened owl.
       Your wrath outpour                      To joy we soar,
            With angry growl!                       Despite your
  scowl!
  Do ye your worst, my vengeance           The echoes of our festival
       call
  Shall rise triumphant over all!          Shall rise triumphant over
  all!
       Prepare for woe,                         Away you go,
            Ye haughty lords,                        Collect your
  hordes;
       At once I go                             Proclaim your woe
            Mikado-wards,                             In dismal
  chords
  My wrongs with vengeance shall           We do not heed their
  dismal
       be crowned!                              sound
  My wrongs with vengeance shall           For joy reigns everywhere
       be crowned!                              around.

  (Katisha rushes furiously up stage, clearing the crowd away right
       and left, finishing on steps at the back of stage.)

                                END OF ACT I.




ACT II.

                           SCENE.--Ko-Ko's Garden.

  Yum-Yum discovered seated at her bridal toilet, surrounded by
       maidens, who are dressing her hair and painting her face and
       lips, as she judges of the effect in a mirror.

                    SOLO--PITTI-SING and CHORUS OF GIRLS.

  CHORUS.        Braid the raven hair--
                      Weave the supple tress--
                 Deck the maiden fair
                      In her loveliness--
                 Paint the pretty face--
                      Dye the coral lip--
                 Emphasize the grace
                      Of her ladyship!
                 Art and nature, thus allied,
                 Go to make a pretty bride.

                           SOLO--PITTI-SING.

                 Sit with downcast eye
                      Let it brim with dew--
                 Try if you can cry--
                      We will do so, too.
                 When you're summoned, start
                      Like a frightened roe--
                 Flutter, little heart,
                      Colour, come and go!
                 Modesty at marriage-tide
                 Well becomes a pretty bride!

                               CHORUS.

                 Braid the raven hair, etc.

                                     [Exeunt Pitti-Sing, Peep-Bo, and
  Chorus.

       YUM.  Yes, I am indeed beautiful!  Sometimes I sit and
  wonder, in my artless Japanese way, why it is that I am so much
  more attractive than anybody else in the whole world.  Can this
  be vanity?  No!  Nature is lovely and rejoices in her loveliness.
  I am a child of Nature, and take after my mother.

                            SONG--YUM-YUM.

                 The sun, whose rays
                 Are all ablaze
                      With ever-living glory,
                 Does not deny
                 His majesty--
                      He scorns to tell a story!
                 He don't exclaim,
                      "I blush for shame,
                      So kindly be indulgent."
                 But, fierce and bold,
                 In fiery gold,
                      He glories effulgent!

                      I mean to rule the earth,
                           As he the sky--
                      We really know our worth,
                           The sun and I!

                 Observe his flame,
                 That placid dame,
                      The moon's Celestial Highness;
                 There's not a trace
                 Upon her face
                      Of diffidence or shyness:
                 She borrows light
                 That, through the night,
                      Mankind may all acclaim her!
                 And, truth to tell,
                 She lights up well,
                      So I, for one, don't blame her!

                      Ah, pray make no mistake,
                           We are not shy;
                      We're very wide awake,
                           The moon and I!

                   Enter Pitti-Sing and Peep-Bo.

       YUM.  Yes, everything seems to smile upon me.  I am to be
  married to-day to the man I love best and I believe I am the very
  happiest girl in Japan!
       PEEP.  The happiest girl indeed, for she is indeed to be
  envied who has attained happiness in all but perfection.
       YUM.  In "all but" perfection?
       PEEP.  Well, dear, it can't be denied that the fact that
  your husband is to be beheaded in a month is, in its way, a
  drawback.  It does seem to take the top off it, you know.
       PITTI.  I don't know about that.  It all depends!
       PEEP.  At all events, he will find it a drawback.
       PITTI.  Not necessarily.  Bless you, it all depends!
       YUM.  (in tears).  I think it very indelicate of you to
  refer to such a subject on such a day.  If my married happiness
  is to be--to be--
       PEEP.  Cut short.
       YUM.  Well, cut short--in a month, can't you let me forget
  it?  (Weeping.)

                 Enter Nanki-Poo, followed by Go-To.

       NANK.  Yum-Yum in tears--and on her wedding morn!
       YUM.  (sobbing).  They've been reminding me that in a month
  you're to be beheaded!  (Bursts into tears.)
       PITTI.  Yes, we've been reminding her that you're to be
  beheaded.  (Bursts into tears.)
       PEEP.  It's quite true, you know, you are to be beheaded!
  (Bursts into tears.)
       NANK.  (aside).  Humph!  Now, some bridegrooms would be
  depressed by this sort of thing!  (Aloud.)  A month?  Well,
  what's a month?  Bah!  These divisions of time are purely
  arbitrary.  Who says twenty-four hours make a day?
       PITTI.  There's a popular impression to that effect.
       NANK.  Then we'll efface it.  We'll call each second a
  minute--each minute an hour--each hour a day--and each day a
  year.  At that rate we've about thirty years of married happiness
  before us!
       PEEP.  And, at that rate, this interview has already lasted
  four hours and three-quarters!
                                                               [Exit
  Peep-Bo.
       YUM.  (still sobbing).  Yes.  How time flies when one is
  thoroughly enjoying oneself!
       NANK.  That's the way to look at it!  Don't let's be
  downhearted!  There's a silver lining to every cloud.
       YUM.  Certainly.  Let's--let's be perfectly happy!  (Almost
  in tears.)
       GO-TO.  By all means.  Let's--let's thoroughly enjoy
  ourselves.
       PITTI.  It's--it's absurd to cry!  (Trying to force a
  laugh.)
       YUM.  Quite ridiculous!  (Trying to laugh.)

                (All break into a forced and melancholy laugh.)

                                  MADRIGAL.

                YUM-YUM, PITTI-SING, NANKI-POO, and PISH-TUSH

            Brightly dawns our wedding day;
                 Joyous hour, we give thee greeting!
                 Whither, whither art thou fleeting?
            Fickle moment, prithee stay!
                 What though mortal joys be hollow?
                 Pleasures come, if sorrows follow:
            Though the tocsin sound, ere long,
                 Ding dong!  Ding dong!
            Yet until the shadows fall
            Over one and over all,
            Sing a merry madrigal--
                                A madrigal!

            Fal-la--fal-la! etc.  (Ending in tears.)

            Let us dry the ready tear,
                 Though the hours are surely creeping
                 Little need for woeful weeping,
            Till the sad sundown is near.
                 All must sip the cup of sorrow--
                 I to-day and thou to-morrow;
            This the close of every song--
                 Ding dong!  Ding dong!
            What, though solemn shadows fall,
            Sooner, later, over all?
            Sing a merry madrigal--
                                A madrigal!

            Fal-la--fal-la! etc.  (Ending in tears.)

                                            [Exeunt Pitti-Sing and
  Pish-Tush.

  (Nanki-Poo embraces Yum-Yum.  Enter Ko-Ko.  Nanki-Poo releases
       Yum-Yum.)

       KO.  Go on--don't mind me.
       NANK.  I'm afraid we're distressing you.
       KO.  Never mind, I must get used to it.  Only please do it
  by degrees.  Begin by putting your arm round her waist.
  (Nanki-Poo does so.)  There; let me get used to that first.
       YUM.  Oh, wouldn't you like to retire?  It must pain you to
  see us so affectionate together!
       KO.  No, I must learn to bear it!  Now oblige me by allowing
  her head to rest on your shoulder.
       NANK.  Like that?  (He does so.  Ko-Ko much affected.)
       KO.  I am much obliged to you.  Now--kiss her!  (He does so.
  Ko-Ko writhes with anguish.)  Thank you--it's simple torture!
       YUM.  Come, come, bear up.  After all, it's only for a
  month.
       KO.  No.  It's no use deluding oneself with false hopes.
       NANK. and YUM.  What do you mean?
       KO.  (to Yum-Yum).  My child--my poor child!  (Aside.)  How
  shall I break it to her?  (Aloud.)  My little bride that was to
  have been?
       YUM.  (delighted).  Was to have been?
       KO.  Yes, you never can be mine!
       NANK. and YUM. (simultaneously, in ecstacy)  What!/I'm so
  glad!
       KO.  I've just ascertained that, by the Mikado's law, when a
  married man is beheaded his wife is buried alive.
       NANK. and YUM.  Buried alive!
       KO.  Buried alive.  It's a most unpleasant death.
       NANK.  But whom did you get that from?
       KO.  Oh, from Pooh-Bah.  He's my Solicitor.
       YUM.  But he may be mistaken!
       KO.  So I thought; so I consulted the Attorney General, the
  Lord Chief Justice, the Master of the Rolls, the Judge Ordinary,
  and the Lord Chancellor.  They're all of the same opinion.  Never
  knew such unanimity on a point of law in my life!
       NANK.  But stop a bit!  This law has never been put in
  force.
       KO.  Not yet.  You see, flirting is the only crime
  punishable with decapitation, and married men never flirt.
       NANK.  Of course, they don't.  I quite forgot that!  Well, I
  suppose I may take it that my dream of happiness is at an end!
       YUM.  Darling--I don't want to appear selfish, and I love
  you with all my heart--I don't suppose I shall ever love anybody
  else half as much--but when I agreed to marry you--my own--I had
  no idea--pet--that I should have to be buried alive in a month!
       NANK.  Nor I!  It's the very first I've heard of it!
       YUM.  It--it makes a difference, doesn't it?
       NANK.  It does make a difference, of course.
       YUM.  You see--burial alive--it's such a stuffy death!
       NANK.  I call it a beast of a death.
       YUM.  You see my difficulty, don't you?
       NANK.  Yes, and I see my own.  If I insist on your carrying
  out your promise, I doom you to a hideous death; if I release
  you, you marry Ko-Ko at once!

                  TRIO.--YUM-YUM, NANKI-POO, and KO-KO.

  YUM.           Here's a how-de-do!
                 If I marry you,
            When your time has come to perish,
            Then the maiden whom you cherish
                 Must be slaughtered, too!
                 Here's a how-de-do!

  NANK.          Here's a pretty mess!
                 In a month, or less,
            I must die without a wedding!
            Let the bitter tears I'm shedding
                 Witness my distress,
                 Here's a pretty mess!

  KO.            Here's a state of things
                 To her life she clings!
            Matrimonial devotion
            Doesn't seem to suit her notion--
                 Burial it brings!
                 Here's a state of things!

                               ENSEMBLE

       YUM-YUM and NANKI-POO.                        KO-KO.

  With a passion that's intense           With a passion that's
  intense
       I worship and adore,                    You worship and adore,
  But the laws of common sense            But the laws of common
  sense
       We oughtn't to ignore.                  You oughtn't to
  ignore.
  If what he says is true,                If what I say is true,
       'Tis death to marry you!                'Tis death to marry
  you!
  Here's a pretty state of things!        Here's a pretty state of
  things!
       Here's a pretty how-de-do!              Here's a pretty
  how-de-do!

                                                               [Exit
  Yum-Yum.

       KO.  (going up to Nanki-Poo).  My poor  boy, I'm really very
  sorry for you.
       NANK.  Thanks, old fellow.  I'm sure you are.
       KO.  You see I'm quite helpless.
       NANK.  I quite see that.
       KO.  I can't conceive anything more distressing than to have
  one's marriage broken off at the last moment.  But you shan't be
  disappointed of a wedding--you shall come to mine.
       NANK.  It's awfully kind of you, but that's impossible.
       KO.  Why so?
       NANK.  To-day I die.
       KO.  What do you mean?
       NANK.  I can't live without Yum-Yum.  This afternoon I
  perform the Happy Despatch.
       KO.  No, no--pardon me--I can't allow that.
       NANK.  Why not?
       KO.  Why, hang it all, you're under contract to die by the
  hand of the Public Executioner in a month's time!  If you kill
  yourself, what's to become of me?  Why, I shall have to be
  executed in your place!
       NANK.  It would certainly seem so!

                              Enter Pooh-Bah.

       KO.  Now then, Lord Mayor, what is it?
       POOH.  The Mikado and his suite are approaching the city,
  and will be here in ten minutes.
       KO.  The Mikado!  He's coming to see whether his orders have
  been carried out! (To Nanki-Poo.)  Now look here, you know--this
  is getting serious--a bargain's a bargain, and you really mustn't
  frustrate the ends of justice by committing suicide.  As a man of
  honour and a gentleman, you are bound to die ignominiously by the
  hands of the Public Executioner.
       NANK.  Very well, then--behead me.
       KO.  What, now?
       NANK.  Certainly; at once.
       POOH.  Chop it off!  Chop it off!
       KO.  My good sir, I don't go about prepared to execute
  gentlemen at a moment's notice.  Why, I never even killed a
  blue-bottle!
       POOH.  Still, as Lord High Executioner----
       KO.  My good sir, as Lord High Executioner, I've got to
  behead him in a month.  I'm not ready yet.  I don't know how it's
  done.  I'm going to take lessons.  I mean to begin with a guinea
  pig, and work my way through the animal kingdom till I come to a
  Second Trombone.  Why, you don't suppose that, as a humane man,
  I'd have accepted the post of Lord High Executioner if I hadn't
  thought the duties were purely nominal?  I can't kill you--I
  can't kill anything! I can't kill anybody!  (Weeps.)
       NANK.  Come, my poor fellow, we all have unpleasant duties
  to discharge at times; after all, what is it?  If I don't mind,
  why should you?  Remember, sooner or later it must be done.
       KO.  (springing up suddenly).  Must it?  I'm not so sure
  about that!
       NANK.  What do you mean?
       KO.  Why should I kill you when making an affidavit that
  you've been executed will do just as well?  Here are plenty of
  witnesses--the Lord Chief Justice, Lord High Admiral,
  Commander-in-Chief, Secretary of State for the Home Department,
  First Lord of the Treasury, and Chief Commissioner of Police.
       NANK.  But where are they?
       KO.  There they are.  They'll all swear to it--won't you?
  (To Pooh-Bah.)
       POOH.  Am I to understand that all of us high Officers of
  State are required to perjure ourselves to ensure your safety?
       KO.  Why not!  You'll be grossly insulted, as usual.
       POOH.  Will the insult be cash down, or at a date?
       KO.  It will be a ready-money transaction.
       POOH.  (Aside.) Well, it will be a useful discipline.
  (Aloud.)  Very good.  Choose your fiction, and I'll endorse it!
  (Aside.)  Ha! ha!  Family Pride, how do you like that, my buck?
       NANK.  But I tell you that life without Yum-Yum----
       KO.  Oh, Yum-Yum, Yum-Yum! Bother Yum-Yum!  Here,
  Commissionaire (to Pooh-Bah), go and fetch Yum-Yum.  (Exit
  Pooh-Bah.)  Take Yum-Yum and marry Yum-Yum, only go away and never
  come back again.  (Enter Pooh-Bah with Yum-Yum.)  Here she is.
  Yum-Yum, are you particularly busy?
       YUM.  Not particularly.
       KO.  You've five minutes to spare?
       YUM.  Yes.
       KO.  Then go along with his Grace the Archbishop of Titipu;
  he'll marry you at once.
       YUM.  But if I'm to be buried alive?
       KO.  Now, don't ask any questions, but do as I tell you, and
  Nanki-Poo will explain all.
       NANK.  But one moment----
       KO.  Not for worlds.  Here comes the Mikado, no doubt to
  ascertain whether I've obeyed his decree, and if he finds you
  alive I shall have the greatest difficulty in persuading him that
  I've beheaded you.  (Exeunt Nanki-Poo and Yum-Yum, followed by
  Pooh-Bah.)  Close thing that, for here he comes!

  [Exit Ko-Ko.

  March.--Enter procession, heralding Mikado, with Katisha.

                       Entrance of Mikado and Katisha.

                      ("March of the Mikado's troops.")

  CHORUS.             Miya sama, miya sama,
                      On n'm-ma no maye ni
                      Pira-Pira suru no wa
                      Nan gia na
                      Toko tonyare tonyare na?

                        DUET--MIKADO and KATISHA.

  MIK.           From every kind of man
                      Obedience I expect;
                 I'm the Emperor of Japan--

  KAT.           And I'm his daughter-in-law elect!
                      He'll marry his son
                      (He's only got one)
                 To his daughter-in-law elect!

  MIK.           My morals have been declared
                      Particularly correct;

  KAT.           But they're nothing at all, compared
                      With those of his daughter-in-law elect!
                           Bow--Bow--
                      To his daughter-in-law elect!

  ALL.                     Bow--Bow--
                      To his daughter-in-law elect.

  MIK.           In a fatherly kind of way
                      I govern each tribe and sect,
                 All cheerfully own my sway--

  KAT.                Except his daughter-in-law elect!
                           As tough as a bone,
                           With a will of her own,
                      Is his daughter-in-law elect!

  MIK.           My nature is love and light--
                      My freedom from all defect--

  KAT.           Is insignificant quite,
                      Compared with his daughter-in-law elect!
                           Bow--Bow--
                      To his daughter-in-law elect!

  ALL.                     Bow--Bow--
                      To his daughter-in-law elect!

                        SONG--MIKADO and CHORUS.

                 A more humane Mikado never
                      Did in Japan exist,
                           To nobody second,
                           I'm certainly reckoned
                      A true philanthropist.
                 It is my very humane endeavour
                      To make, to some extent,
                           Each evil liver
                           A running river
                      Of harmless merriment.

                      My object all sublime
                      I shall achieve in time--
                 To let the punishment fit the crime--
                           The punishment fit the crime;
                      And make each prisoner pent
                      Unwillingly represent
                 A source of innocent merriment!
                      Of innocent merriment!

                 All prosy dull society sinners,
                      Who chatter and bleat and bore,
                           Are sent to hear sermons
                           From mystical Germans
                      Who preach from ten till four.
                 The amateur tenor, whose vocal villainies
                      All desire to shirk,
                           Shall, during off-hours,
                           Exhibit his powers
                      To Madame Tussaud's waxwork.

                 The lady who dyes a chemical yellow
                      Or stains her grey hair puce,
                           Or pinches her figure,
                           Is painted with vigour
                      With permanent walnut juice.
                 The idiot who, in railway carriages,
                      Scribbles on window-panes,
                           We only suffer
                           To ride on a buffer
                      In Parliamentary trains.

                           My object all sublime, etc.

  CHORUS.                  His object all sublime, etc.

                 The advertising quack who wearies
                      With tales of countless cures,
                           His teeth, I've enacted,
                           Shall all be extracted
                      By terrified amateurs.
                 The music-hall singer attends a series
                      Of masses and fugues and "ops"
                           By Bach, interwoven
                           With Spohr and Beethoven,
                      At classical Monday Pops.

                 The billiard sharp who any one catches,
                      His doom's extremely hard--
                           He's made to dwell--
                           In a dungeon cell
                      On a spot that's always barred.
                 And there he plays extravagant matches
                      In fitless finger-stalls
                           On a cloth untrue
                           With a twisted cue
                      And elliptical billiard balls!

                           My object all sublime, etc.

  CHORUS.             His object all sublime, etc.

               Enter Pooh-Bah, Ko-Ko, and Pitti-Sing.  All kneel

                     (Pooh-Bah hands a paper to Ko-Ko.)

       KO.  I am honoured in being permitted to welcome your
  Majesty.  I guess the object of your Majesty's visit--your wishes
  have been attended to.  The execution has taken place.
       MIK.  Oh, you've had an execution, have you?
       KO.  Yes.  The Coroner has just handed me his certificate.
       POOH.  I am the Coroner.  (Ko-Ko hands certificate to
  Mikado.)
       MIK.  And this is the certificate of his death.  (Reads.)
  "At Titipu, in the presence of the Lord Chancellor, Lord Chief
  Justice, Attorney-General, Secretary of State for the Home
  Department, Lord Mayor, and Groom of the Second Floor Front----"
       POOH.  They were all present, your Majesty.  I counted them
  myself.
       MIK.  Very good house.  I wish I'd been in time for the
  performance.
       KO.  A tough fellow he was, too--a man of gigantic strength.
  His struggles were terrific.  It was a remarkable scene.
       MIK.  Describe it.

                             TRIO and CHORUS.

                   KO-KO, PITTI-SING, POOH-BAH and CHORUS.

  KO.       The criminal cried, as he dropped him down,
                 In a state of wild alarm--
            With a frightful, frantic, fearful frown,
                 I bared my big right arm.
            I seized him by his little pig-tail,
                 And on his knees fell he,
                      As he squirmed and struggled,
                      And gurgled and guggled,
                 I drew my snickersnee!
                      Oh, never shall I
                      Forget the cry,
                 Or the shriek that shrieked he,
                      As I gnashed my teeth,
                      When from its sheath
                 I drew my snickersnee!

  CHORUS.

                      We know him well,
                      He cannot tell
                 Untrue or groundless tales--
                      He always tries
                      To utter lies,
                 And every time he fails.

  PITTI.    He shivered and shook as he gave the sign
                 For the stroke he didn't deserve;
            When all of a sudden his eye met mine,
                 And it seemed to brace his nerve;
            For he nodded his head and kissed his hand,
                 And he whistled an air, did he,
                      As the sabre true
                      Cut cleanly through
                 His cervical vertebrae!

                 When a man's afraid,
                 A beautiful maid
            Is a cheering sight to see;
                 And it's oh, I'm glad
                 That moment sad
            Was soothed by sight of me!

                            CHORUS.

                 Her terrible tale
                 You can't assail,
            With truth it quite agrees:
                 Her taste exact
                 For faultless fact
            Amounts to a disease.

  POOH.     Now though you'd have said that head was dead
                 (For its owner dead was he),
            It stood on its neck, with a smile well-bred,
                 And bowed three times to me!
            It was none of your impudent off-hand nods,
                 But as humble as could be;
                      For it clearly knew
                      The deference due
                 To a man of pedigree!
                      And it's oh, I vow,
                      This deathly bow
                 Was a touching sight to see;
                      Though trunkless, yet
                      It couldn't forget
                 The deference due to me!

                                 CHORUS.

                      This haughty youth,
                      He speaks the truth
                 Whenever he finds it pays:
                      And in this case
                      It all took place
                 Exactly as he says!
                                                              [Exeunt
  Chorus.

       MIK.  All this is very interesting, and I should like to
  have seen it.  But we came about a totally different matter.  A
  year ago my son, the heir to the throne of Japan, bolted from our
  Imperial Court.
       KO.  Indeed!  Had he any reason to be dissatisfied with his
  position?
       KAT.  None whatever.  On the contrary, I was going to marry
  him--yet he fled!
       POOH.  I am surprised that he should have fled from one so
  lovely!
       KAT.  That's not true.
       POOH.  No!
       KAT.  You hold that I am not beautiful because my face is
  plain.  But you know nothing; you are still unenlightened.
  Learn, then, that it is not in the face alone that beauty is to
  be sought.  My face is unattractive!
       POOH.  It is.
       KAT.  But I have a left shoulder-blade that is a miracle of
  loveliness.  People come miles to see it.  My right elbow has a
  fascination that few can resist.
       POOH.  Allow me!
       KAT.  It is on view Tuesdays and Fridays, on presentation of
  visiting card.  As for my circulation, it is the largest in the
  world.
       KO.  And yet he fled!
       MIK.  And is now masquerading in this town, disguised as a
  Second Trombone.
       KO., POOH., and PITTI.  A Second Trombone!
       MIK.  Yes; would it be troubling you too much if I asked you
  to produce him?  He goes by the name of----
       KAT.  Nanki-Poo.
       MIK.  Nanki-Poo.
       KO.  It's quite easy.  That is, it's rather difficult.  In
  point of fact, he's gone abroad!
       MIK.  Gone abroad!  His address.
       KO.  Knightsbridge!
       KAT.  (who is reading certificate of death).  Ha!
       MIK.  What's the matter?
       KAT.  See here--his name--Nanki-Poo--beheaded this morning.
  Oh, where shall I find another?  Where shall I find another?

                        [Ko-Ko, Pooh-Bah, and Pitti-Sing fall on
  their knees.

       MIK.  (looking at paper).  Dear, dear, dear!  this is very
  tiresome.  (To Ko-Ko.)  My poor fellow, in your anxiety to carry
  out my wishes you have beheaded the heir to the throne of Japan!
       KO.  I beg to offer an unqualified apology.
       POOH.  I desire to associate myself with that expression of
  regret.
       PITTI.  We really hadn't the least notion--
       MIK.  Of course you hadn't.  How could you?  Come, come, my
  good fellow, don't distress yourself--it was no fault of yours.
  If a man of exalted rank chooses to disguise himself as a Second
  Trombone, he must take the consequences.  It really distresses me
  to see you take on so.  I've no doubt he thoroughly deserved all
  he got.  (They rise.)
       KO.  We are infinitely obliged to your Majesty----
       PITTI.  Much obliged, your Majesty.
       POOH.  Very much obliged, your Majesty.
       MIK.  Obliged? not a bit.  Don't mention it.  How could you
  tell?
       POOH.  No, of course we couldn't tell who the gentleman
  really was.
       PITTI.  It wasn't written on his forehead, you know.
       KO.  It might have been on his pocket-handkerchief, but
  Japanese don't use pocket-handkerchiefs!  Ha! ha! ha!
       MIK.  Ha! ha! ha! (To Katisha.)  I forget the punishment for
  compassing the death of the Heir Apparent.
       KO., POOH, and PITTI.  Punishment.  (They drop down on their
  knees again.)
       MIK.  Yes.  Something lingering, with boiling oil in it, I
  fancy.  Something of that sort.  I think boiling oil occurs in
  it, but I'm not sure.  I know it's something humorous, but
  lingering, with either boiling oil or melted lead.  Come, come,
  don't fret--I'm not a bit angry.
       KO.  (in abject terror).  If your Majesty  will accept  our
  assurance, we had no idea----
       MIK.  Of course----
       PITTI.  I knew nothing about it.
       POOH.  I wasn't there.
       MIK.  That's the pathetic part of it.  Unfortunately, the
  fool of an Act says "compassing the death of the Heir Apparent."
  There's not a word about a mistake----
       KO., PITTI., and POOH.  No!
       MIK.  Or not knowing----
       KO.  No!
       MIK.  Or having no notion----
       PITTI.  No!
       MIK.  Or not being there----
       POOH.  No!
       MIK.  There should be, of course---
       KO., PITTI., and POOH.  Yes!
       MIK.  But there isn't.
       KO., PITTI., and POOH.  Oh!
       MIK.  That's the slovenly way in which these Acts are always
  drawn.  However, cheer up, it'll be all right.  I'll have it
  altered next session.  Now, let's see about your execution--will
  after luncheon suit you?  Can you wait till then?
       KO., PITTI., and POOH.  Oh, yes--we can wait till then!
       MIK.  Then we'll make it after luncheon.
       POOH.  I don't want any lunch.
       MIK.  I'm really very sorry for you all, but it's an unjust
  world, and virtue is triumphant only in theatrical performances.

                                    GLEE.

              PITTI-SING, KATISHA, KO-KO, POOH-BAH, and MIKADO,

  MIK.      See how the Fates their gifts allot,
            For A is happy--B is not.
            Yet B is worthy, I dare say,
            Of more prosperity than A!
  KO., POOH., and PITTI.  Is B more worthy?
  KAT.                          I should say
            He's worth a great deal more than A.
  ENSEMBLE:      Yet A is happy!
                      Oh, so happy!
                 Laughing, Ha! ha!
                 Chaffing, Ha! ha!
            Nectar quaffing, Ha! ha! ha!
                 Ever joyous, ever gay,
                 Happy, undeserving A!
  KO., POOH., and PITTI.   If I were Fortune--which I'm not--
                           B should enjoy A's happy lot,
                           And A should die in miserie--
                           That is, assuming I am B.
  MIK. and KAT.       But should A perish?
  KO., POOH., and PITTI.                  That should be
                      (Of course, assuming I am B).
                           B should be happy!
                                Oh, so happy!
                           Laughing, Ha! ha!
                           Chaffing, Ha! ha!
                      Nectar quaffing, Ha! ha! ha!
                           But condemned to die is he,
                           Wretched meritorious B!

                                                  [Exeunt Mikado and
  Katisha.

       KO.  Well, a nice mess you've got us into, with your nodding
  head and the deference due to a man of pedigree!
       POOH.  Merely corroborative detail, intended to give
  artistic verisimilitude to an otherwise bald and unconvincing
  narrative.
       PITTI.  Corroborative detail indeed!  Corroborative
  fiddlestick!
       KO.  And you're just as bad as he is with your cock--
  and-a-bull stories about catching his eye and his whistling an
  air.  But that's so like you!  You must put in your oar!
       POOH.  But how about your big right arm?
       PITTI.  Yes, and your snickersnee!
       KO.  Well, well, never mind that now.  There's only one
  thing to be done.  Nanki-Poo hasn't started yet--he must come to
  life again at once.  (Enter Nanki-Poo and Yum-Yum prepared for
  journey.)  Here he comes.  Here, Nanki-Poo, I've good news for
  you--you're reprieved.
       NANK.  Oh, but it's too late.  I'm a dead man, and I'm off
  for my honeymoon.
       KO.  Nonsense!  A terrible thing has just happened.  It
  seems you're the son of the Mikado.
       NANK.  Yes, but that happened some time ago.
       KO.  Is this a time for airy persiflage?  Your father is
  here, and with Katisha!
       NANK.  My father!  And with Katisha!
       KO.  Yes, he wants you particularly.
       POOH.  So does she.
       YUM.  Oh, but he's married now.
       KO.  But, bless my heart! what has that to do with it?
       NANK.  Katisha claims me in marriage, but I can't marry her
  because I'm married already--consequently she will insist on my
  execution, and if I'm executed, my wife will have to be buried
  alive.
       YUM.  You see our difficulty.
       KO.  Yes.  I don't know what's to be done.
       NANK.  There's one chance for you.  If you could persuade
  Katisha to marry you, she would have no further claim on me, and
  in that case I could come to life without any fear of being put
  to death.
       KO.  I marry Katisha!
       YUM.  I really think it's the only course.
       KO.  But, my good girl, have you seen her?  She's something
  appalling!
       PITTI.  Ah! that's only her face.  She has a left elbow
  which people come miles to see!
       POOH.  I am told that her right heel is much admired by
  connoisseurs.
       KO.  My good sir, I decline to pin my heart upon any lady's
  right heel.
       NANK.  It comes to this:  While Katisha is single, I prefer
  to be a disembodied spirit.  When Katisha is married, existence
  will be as welcome as the flowers in spring.

                          DUET--NANKI-POO and KO-KO.

                  (With YUM-YUM, PITTI-SING, and POOH-BAH.)

  NANK.     The flowers that bloom in the spring,
                                     Tra la,
                 Breathe promise of merry sunshine--
            As we merrily dance and we sing,
                                     Tra la,
            We welcome the hope that they bring,
                                     Tra la,
                 Of a summer of roses and wine.
                      And that's what we mean when we say that a
                           thing
                      Is welcome as flowers that bloom in the
                           spring.
                                     Tra la la la la la, etc.

  ALL.           Tra la la la, etc.

  KO.       The flowers that bloom in the spring,
                                     Tra la,
                 Have nothing to do with the case.
            I've got to take under my wing,
                                     Tra la,
            A most unattractive old thing,
                                     Tra la,
                 With a caricature of a face
            And that's what I mean when I say, or I sing,
            "Oh, bother the flowers that bloom in the spring."
                                     Tra la la la la la, etc.

  ALL.  Tra la la la, Tra la la la, etc.

  [Dance and exeunt Nanki-Poo, Yum-Yum, Pooh-Bah, Pitti-Sing, and
  Ko-Ko.

                              Enter Katisha.

                       RECITATIVE and SONG.--KATISHA.

       Alone, and yet alive!  Oh, sepulchre!
       My soul is still my body's prisoner!
       Remote the peace that Death alone can give--
       My doom, to wait! my punishment, to live!

                                 SONG.

                 Hearts do not break!
                 They sting and ache
                 For old love's sake,
                      But do not die,
                 Though with each breath
                 They long for death
                 As witnesseth
                      The living I!
                           Oh, living I!
                           Come, tell me why,
                           When hope is gone,
                           Dost thou stay on?
                           Why linger here,
                           Where all is drear?
                           Oh, living I!
                           Come, tell me why,
                           When hope is gone,
                           Dost thou stay on?
                      May not a cheated maiden die?

       KO.  (entering and approaching her timidly).  Katisha!
       KAT.  The miscreant who robbed me of my love!  But vengeance
  pursues--they are heating the cauldron!
       KO.  Katisha--behold a suppliant at your feet!
  Katisha--mercy!
       KAT.  Mercy?  Had you mercy on him?  See here, you!  You
  have slain my love.  He did not love me, but he would have loved
  me in time.  I am an acquired taste--only the educated palate can
  appreciate me.  I was educating his palate when he left me.
  Well, he is dead, and where shall I find another?  It takes years
  to train a man to love me.  Am I to go through the weary round
  again, and, at the same time, implore mercy for you who robbed me
  of my prey--I mean my pupil--just as his education was on the
  point of completion?  Oh, where shall I find another?
       KO.  (suddenly, and with great vehemence).  Here!--Here!
       KAT.  What!!!
       KO.  (with intense passion).  Katisha, for years I have
  loved you with a white-hot passion that is slowly but surely
  consuming my very vitals!  Ah, shrink not from me!  If there is
  aught of woman's mercy in your heart, turn not away from a
  love-sick suppliant whose every fibre thrills at your tiniest
  touch!  True it is that, under a poor mask of disgust, I have
  endeavoured to conceal a passion whose inner fires are broiling
  the soul within me!  But the fire will not be smothered--it
  defies all attempts at extinction, and, breaking forth, all the
  more eagerly for its long restraint, it declares itself in words
  that will not be weighed--that cannot be schooled--that should
  not be too severely criticised.  Katisha, I dare not hope for
  your love--but I will not live without it!  Darling!
       KAT.  You, whose hands still reek with the blood of my
  betrothed, dare to address words of passion to the woman you have
  so foully wronged!
       KO.  I do--accept my love, or I perish on the spot!
       KAT.  Go to!  Who knows so well as I that no one ever yet
  died of a broken heart!
       KO.  You know not what you say.  Listen!

                             SONG--KO-KO.

       On a tree by a river a little tom-tit
            Sang "Willow, titwillow, titwillow!"
       And I said to him, "Dicky-bird, why do you sit
            Singing  Willow, titwillow, titwillow'?"
       "Is it weakness of intellect, birdie?" I cried,
       "Or a rather tough worm in your little inside?"
       With a shake of his poor little head, he replied,
            "Oh, willow, titwillow, titwillow!"

       He slapped at his chest, as he sat on that bough,
            Singing "Willow, titwillow, titwillow!"
       And a cold perspiration bespangled his brow,
            Oh, willow, titwillow, titwillow!
       He sobbed and he sighed, and a gurgle he gave,
       Then he plunged himself into the billowy wave,
       And an echo arose from the suicide's grave--
            "Oh, willow, titwillow, titwillow!"

       Now I feel just as sure as I'm sure that my name
            Isn't Willow, titwillow, titwillow,
       That 'twas blighted affection that made him exclaim
            "Oh, willow, titwillow, titwillow!"
       And if you remain callous and obdurate, I
       Shall perish as he did, and you will know why,
       Though I probably shall not exclaim as I die,
            "Oh, willow, titwillow, titwillow!"

  (During this song Katisha has been greatly affected, and at the
       end is almost in tears.)

       KAT.  (whimpering).  Did he really die of love?
       KO.  He really did.
       KAT.  All on account of a cruel little hen?
       KO.  Yes.
       KAT.  Poor little chap!
       KO.  It's an affecting tale, and quite true.  I knew the
  bird intimately.
       KAT.  Did you?  He must have been very fond of her.
       KO.  His devotion was something extraordinary.
       KAT.  (still whimpering).  Poor little chap!  And--and if I
  refuse you, will you go and do the same?
       KO.  At once.
       KAT.  No, no--you mustn't!  Anything but that!  (Falls on
  his breast.)  Oh, I'm a silly little goose!
       KO.  (making a wry face).  You are!
       KAT.  And you won't hate me because I'm just a little teeny
  weeny wee bit bloodthirsty, will you?
       KO.  Hate you?  Oh, Katisha! is there not beauty even in
  bloodthirstiness?
       KAT.  My idea exactly.

                        DUET--KATISHA and KO-KO.

  KAT.     There is beauty in the bellow of the blast,
            There is grandeur in the growling of the gale,
                 There is eloquent outpouring
                 When the lion is a-roaring,
            And the tiger is a-lashing of his tail!
  KO.            Yes, I like to see a tiger
                 From the Congo or the Niger,
            And especially when lashing of his tail!
  KAT.     Volcanoes have a splendor that is grim,
            And earthquakes only terrify the dolts,
                 But to him who's scientific
                 There's nothing that's terrific
            In the falling of a flight of thunderbolts!
  KO.            Yes, in spite of all my meekness,
                 If I have a little weakness,
            It's a passion for a flight of thunderbolts!

  BOTH.          If that is so,
                      Sing derry down derry!
                      It's evident, very,
                           Our tastes are one.
                 Away we'll go,
                      And merrily marry,
                      Nor tardily tarry
                           Till day is done!

  KO.       There is beauty in extreme old age--
                 Do you fancy you are elderly enough?
                      Information I'm requesting
                      On a subject interesting:
                 Is a maiden all the better when she's tough?
  KAT.                Throughout this wide dominion
                      It's the general opinion
                 That she'll last a good deal longer when she's
                      tough.

  KO.      Are you old enough to marry, do you think?
            Won't you wait till you are eighty in the shade?
                 There's a fascination frantic
                 In a ruin that's romantic;
            Do you think you are sufficiently decayed?
  KAT.           To the matter that you mention
                 I have given some attention,
            And I think I am sufficiently decayed.

  BOTH.     If that is so,
                 Sing derry down derry!
                 It's evident, very,
                      Our tastes are one!
            Away we'll go,
                 And merrily marry,
                 Nor tardily tarry
                      Till day is done!
                                                            [Exeunt
  together.

  Flourish.  Enter the Mikado, attended by Pish-Tush and Court.

       MIK.  Now then, we've had a capital lunch, and we're quite
  ready.  Have all the painful preparations been made?
       PISH.  Your Majesty, all is prepared.
       MIK.  Then produce the unfortunate gentleman and his two
  well-meaning but misguided accomplices.

  Enter Ko-Ko, Katisha, Pooh-Bah, and Pitti-Sing.  They throw
  themselves
       at the Mikado's feet

       KAT.  Mercy!  Mercy for Ko-Ko!  Mercy for Pitti-Sing!  Mercy
  even for Pooh-Bah!
       MIK.  I beg your pardon, I don't think I quite caught that
  remark.
       POOH.  Mercy even for Pooh-Bah.
       KAT.  Mercy!  My husband that was to have been is dead, and
  I have just married this miserable object.
       MIK.  Oh!  You've not been long about it!
       KO.  We were married before the Registrar.
       POOH.  I am the Registrar.
       MIK.  I see.  But my difficulty is that, as you have slain
  the Heir Apparent----

  Enter Nanki-Poo and Yum-Yum.  They kneel.

       NANK.  The Heir Apparent is not slain.
       MIK.  Bless my heart, my son!
       YUM.  And your daughter-in-law elected!
       KAT.  (seizing Ko-Ko).  Traitor, you have deceived me!
       MIK.  Yes, you are entitled to a little explanation, but I
  think he will give it better whole than in pieces.
       KO.  Your Majesty, it's like this: It is true that I stated
  that I had killed Nanki-Poo----
       MIK.  Yes, with most affecting particulars.
       POOH.  Merely corroborative detail intended to give artistic
  verisimilitude to a bald and----
       KO.   Will you refrain from putting in your oar?  (To
  Mikado.)  It's like this:  When your Majesty says, "Let a thing be
  done," it's as good as done--practically, it is done--because
  your Majesty's will is law.  Your Majesty says, "Kill a
  gentleman," and a gentleman is told off to be killed.
  Consequently, that gentleman is as good as dead--practically, he
  is dead--and if he is dead, why not say so?
       MIK.  I see.  Nothing could possibly be more satisfactory!

                               FINALE.

  PITTI.    For he's gone and married Yum-Yum--
  ALL.                                    Yum-Yum!
  PITTI.         Your anger pray bury,
                 For all will be merry,
            I think you had better succumb--
  ALL.                                    Cumb--cumb.
  PITTI.         And join our expressions of glee!
  KO.       On this subject I pray you be dumb--
  ALL.                                    Dumb--dumb!
  KO.            Your notions, though many,
                 Are not worth a penny,
            The word for your guidance is "Mum"--
  ALL.                                    Mum--Mum!
  KO.       You've a very good bargain in me.
  ALL.      On this subject we pray you be dumb--
                                          Dumb--dumb!
            We think you had better succumb--
                                          Cumb--cumb!
                 You'll find there are many
                 Who'll wed for a penny,
            There are lots of good fish in the sea.
  YUM. and NANK. The threatened cloud has passed away,
            And brightly shines the dawning day;
            What though the night may come too soon,
            We've years and years of afternoon!
  ALL.           Then let the throng
                      Our joy advance,
            With laughing song
                      And merry dance,
            With joyous shout and ringing cheer,
            Inaugurate our new career!
                 Then let the throng, etc.


                               CURTAIN.





I HOPE YOU ARE HAVING LOTS OF FAN IN TRYING TO
CATCH ME THAT WASN'T ME ON THE TV SHOW WHICH
BRINGO UP A POINT ABOUT ME I AM NOT AFRAID OF THE
GAS CHAMBER BECAASE IT WILL SEND ME TO PARADLCE
ALL THE SOOHER BECAUSE E NOW HAVE ENOUGH SLAVES
TO WORV FOR ME WHERE EVERYONE ELSE HAS NOTHING
WHEN THEY REACH PARADICE SO THEY ARE AFRAID OF
DEATH I AM NOT AFRAID BECAUSE I VNOW THAT MY NEW
LIFE WILL BE AN EASY ONE IN PARADICE
LIFE IS DEATH

I HOPE YOU ARE HAVING LOTS OF FUN IN TRYING TO
CATCH ME THAT WASN'T ME ON THE TV SHOW WHICH
BRINGS UP A POINT ABOUT ME I AM NOT AFRAID OF THE
GAS CHAMBER BECAUSE IT WILL SEND ME TO PARADICE
ALL THE SOONER BECAUSE I NOW HAVE ENOUGH SLAVES
TO WORK FOR ME WHERE EVERYONE ELSE HAS NOTHING
WHEN THEY REACH PARADICE SO THEY ARE AFRAID OF
DEATH I AM NOT AFRAID BECAUSE I KNOW THAT MY NEW
LIFE WILL BE AN EASY ONE IN PARADICE
LIFE IS DEATH