THE CONFESSION
BY____________
SHE WAS YOUNG AND BEAUTIFUL BUT NOW SHE IS BATTERED AND DEAD. SHE IS NOT THE 
FIRST AND SHE WILL NOT BE THE LAST I LAY AWAKE NIGHTS THINKING ABOUT MY NEXT 
VICTIM. MAYBE SHE WILL BE THE BEAUTIFUL BLOND THAT BABYSITS NEAR THE LITTLE 
STORE AND WALKS DOWN THE DARK ALLEY EACH EVENING ABOUT SEVEN. OR MAYBE SHE WILL 
BE THE SHAPELY BRUNETT THAT SAID NO WHEN I ASKED HER FOR A DATE IN HIGH SCHOOL. 
BUT MAYBE IT WILL NOT BE EITHER. BUT I SHALL CUT OFF HER FEMALE PARTS AND 
DEPOSIT THEM FOR THE WHOLE CITY TO SEE. SO DON'T MAKE IT TO EASY FOR ME. KEEP 
YOUR SISTERS, DAUGHTERS, AND WIVES OFF THE STREETS AND ALLEYS. MISS BATES WAS 
STUPID. SHE WENT TO THE SLAUGHTER LIKE A LAMB. SHE DID NOT PUT UP A STRUGGLE. 
BUT I DID. IT WAS A BALL. I FIRST CUT THE MIDDLE WIRE FROM THE DISTRIBUTOR. 
THEN I WAITED FOR HER IN THE LIBRARY AND FOLLOWED HER OUT AFTER ABOUT TWO 
MINUTES. THE BATTERY MUST HAVE BEEN ABOUT DEAD BY THEN. I THEN OFFERED TO HELP. 
SHE WAS THEN VERY WILLING TO TALK TO ME. I TOLD HER THAT MY CAR WAS DOWN THE 
STREET AND THAT I WOULD GIVE HER A LIFT HOME. WHEN WE WERE AWAY FROM THE 
LIBRARY WALKING, I SAID IT WAS ABOUT TIME. SHE ASKED ME, "ABOUT TIME FOR WHAT?" 
I SAID IT WAS ABOUT TIME FOR HER TO DIE. I GRABBED HER AROUND THE NECK WITH MY 
HAND OVER HER MOUTH AND MY OTHER HAND WITH A SMALL KNIFE AT HER THROAT. SHE 
WENT VERY WILLINGLY. HER BREAST FELT WARM AND VERY FIRM UNDER MY HANDS, BUT 
ONLY ONE THING WAS ON MY MIND. MAKING HER PAY FOR ALL THE BRUSH OFFS THAT SHE 
HAD GIVEN ME DURING THE YEARS PRIOR. SHE DIED HARD. SHE SQUIRMED AND SHOOK AS I 
CHOCKED HER, AND HER LIPS TWICHED. SHE LET OUT A SCREAM ONCE AND I KICKED HER 
IN THE HEAD TO SHUT HER UP. I PLUNGED THE KNIFE INTO HER AND IT BROKE. I THEN 
FINISHED THE JOB BY CUTTING HER THROAT. I AM NOT SICK. I AM INSANE. BUT THAT 
WILL NOT STOP THE GAME. THIS LETTER SHOULD BE PUBLISHED FOR ALL TO READ IT. IT 
JUST MIGHT SAVE THAT GIRL IN THE ALLEY. BUT THAT'S UP TO YOU. IT WILL BE ON 
YOUR CONSCIENCE. NOT MINE. YES, I DID MAKE THAT CALL TO YOU ALSO. IT WAS JUST A 
WARNING. BEWARE...I AM STALKING YOUR GIRLS NOW.
CC. CHIEF OF POLICE
ENTERPRISE

Sick of living/unwilling to die
cut.
clean.
if red I
clean.
blood spurting,
dripping,
spilling;
all over her new
dress
oh well
it was red
anyway.
life draining into an
uncertain death.
she won't
die.
this time
someone ll find her.
just wait till
next time.
rh

BATES HAD
TO DIE
THERE WILL
BE MORE
Z


I like killing people because it is so much fun it is more fun than killing 
wild game in the forrest because man is the most dangeroue anamal of all to 
kill something gives me the most thrilling experence it is even better than 
getting your rocks off with a girl the best part of it is that when I die I 
will be reborn in paradice and all the I have killed will become my slaves I 
will not give you my name because you will try to sloi down or stop my 
collecting of slaves for my afterlife ebeorietemethhpiti

Please Rush to Editor

S. F. Chronicle
San Fran. Calif

Please Rush to Editor !

Editor!

Please Rush to Editor

S.F. Examiner
San Fran. Calif.
Please Rush To Editor


Dear Editor
I am the killer of the 2 teenagers last Christmass at Lake Herman + the girl 
last 4th of July. To prove this I shall state some facts which only I + the 
police know.

Christmass
1 brand name of ammo - Super X
2 10 shots fired
3 Boy was on his back with    feet to car
4 Girl was lyeing on right side 
   feet to west

4th July
1 girl was wearing patterned    pants
2 boy was also shot in knee
3 ammo was made by    Western

Here is a cipher or that is part of one. The other 2 parts are being mailed to 
the Vallejo Times + S.F. Chronicle I want you to print this cipher on the frunt 
page by Fry afternoon Aug 1-69. If you do not print this cipher, I will go on a 
kill rampage Fry night. This will last the whole weekend, I will cruse around 
killing people who are alone at night untill Sun Night or un till I kill a 
dozen people.

Please Rush To Editor

Vallejo Times Herald
Vallejo Calif
Please Rush To Editor


Dear Editor
I am the killer of the 2 teen-
agers last Christmass at Lake Herman and the Girl last 4th of July. To Prove this I shall state some facts which only I + the police know

Christmass
1 Brand name of ammo    Super X
2 10 Shots fired
3 Boy was on back feet to car
4 Girl was lyeing on right side 
   feet to west

4th of July 
1 Girl was wearing patterned 
   Pants
2 Boy was also shot in knee
3 Brand name of ammo was    Western

Here is a cyipher or that is 
part of one. the other 2 parts 
have been mailed to the S.F. 
Examiner + the S.F. Chronicle I want you to print this cipher on your frunt page by Fry Afternoon Aug 1-69, If you 
do not do this I will go on a 
kill ram page Fry night that 
will last the whole week end. 
I will cruse around and pick 
off all stray people or coupples that are alone then move on to kill some more untill I have killed over a dozen people.


Dear Editor
This is the murderer of the 2 teenagers last Christmass at Lake Herman + the 
girl on the 4th of July near the golf course in Vallejo To prove I killed them 
I shall state some facts whichonly I + the police know.

Christmass
1 Brand name of ammo 
   Super X
2 10 shots were fired
3 the boy was on his back with his feet to the car
4 the girl was on her right 
   side feet to the west

4th July
1 girl was wearing paterned 
   slacks
2 The boy was also shot in 
   the knee.
3 Brand name of ammo was 
   western

Here is part of a cipher the other 2 parts of this cipher are being mailed to 
the editors of the Vallejo Times and SF Examiner.
I want you to print this cipher on the front page of your paper. In this cipher 
is my idenity.
If you do not print this cipher by the afternoon of Fry.1st of Aug 69, I will 
go on a kill ram-Page Fry. night. I will cruse around all weekend killing lone 
people in the night then move on to kill again, until I end up with a dozen 
people over the weekend.


This is the Zodiac speaking.
In answer to your asking for more details about the good times I have had in 
Vallejo, I shall be very happy to supply even more material. By the way, are 
the police having a good time with the code? If not, tell them to cheer up; 
when they do crack it, they will have me.
On the 4th of July I did not open the car door. The window was rolled down all 
ready. The boy was origionaly sitting in the front seat when I began fireing. 
When I fired the first shot at his head, he leaped backwards at the same time, 
thus spoiling my aim. He ended up on the back seat then the floor in back 
thashing out very violently with his legs; that's how I shot him in the knee. I 
did not leave the cene of the killing with squealing tires + raceing engine as 
described in the Vallejo paper. I drove away quite slowly so as not to draw 
attention to my car. The man who told police that my car was brown was a negro 
about 40-45 rather shabbly dressed. I was in this phone booth having some fun 
with the Vallejo cop when he was walking by. When I hung the phone up the damn 
thing began to ring & that drew his attention to me + my car.
Last Christmass In that epasode the police were wondering how I could shoot + 
hit my victims in the dark. They did not openly state this, but implied this by 
saying it was a well lit night + I could see silowets on the horizon. Bullshit 
that area is srounded by high hills + trees. What I did was tape a small pencel 
flash light to the barrel of my gun. If you notice, in the center of the beam 
of light if you aim it at a wall or ceiling you will see a black or darck spot 
in the center of the circle of light about 3 to 6 inches across. When taped to 
a gun barrel, the bullet will strike in the center of the black dot in the 
light. All I had to do was spray them as if it was a water hose; there was no 
need to use the gun sights. I was not happy to see that I did not get front 
page coverage.

NO ADDRESS


Vallejo
12-20-68
7-4-69
Sept 27-69-6:30
by knife


Please Rush To Editor

S.F. Chronicle
San Fran.
Calif.
Please Rush To Editor


This is the Zodiac speaking.
I am the murderer of the taxi driver over by Washington St + Maple St last 
night, to prove this here is a blood stained piece of his shirt. I am the same 
man who did in the people in the north bay area.
The S.F. Police could have caught me last night if they had searched the park 
properly instead of holding road races with their motorcicles seeing who could 
make the most noise. The car drivers should have just parked their cars and sat 
there quietly waiting for me to come out of cover.
School children make nice targets, I think I shall wipe out a school bus some 
morning. Just shoot out the front tire + then pick off the kiddies as they come 
bouncing out.

Please Rush to Editor

S.F. Chronicle
San Francisco Calif
Please Rush to Editor


This is the Zodiac speaking I though you would need a good laugh before you get 
the bad news you won't get the news for a while yet

PS could you print this new cipher on your frunt page? I get awfully lonely 
when I am ignored, so lonely I could do my Thing!!!!!!

Des July Aug Sept Oct = 7


Please Rush to Editor

S.F. CHRONICLE
San Fran Calif
Please Rush to Editor


This is the Zodiac speaking up to the end of Oct I have killed 7 people. I have 
grown rather angry with the police for their telling lies about me. So I shall 
change the way the collecting of slaves. I shall no longer announce to anyone. 
When I committ my murders, they shall look like routine robberies, killings of 
anger, + a few fake accidents, etc.

The police shall never catch me, because I have been too clever for them.

1 I look like the description passed out only when I do my thing, the rest of 
the time I look entirle different. I shall not tell you what my descise 
consists of when I kill

2 As of yet I have left no fingerprints behind me contrary to what the police 
say in my killings I wear transparent fingertip guards. All it is is 2 coats of 
airplane cement coated on my fingertips -- quite unnoticible + very efective

3 my killing tools have been boughten through the mail order outfits before the 
ban went into efect. Except one & it was bought out of the state. So as you can 
see the police don't have much to work on. If you wonder why I was wipeing the 
cab down I was leaving fake clews for the police to run all over town with, as 
one might say, I gave the cops som bussy work to do to keep them happy. I enjoy 
needling the blue pigs. Hey blue pig I was in the park -- you were useing fire 
trucks to mask the sound of your cruzeing prowl cars. The dogs never came with 
in 2 blocks of me + they were to the west + there was only 2 groups of parking 
about 10 min apart then the motor cicles went by about 150 ft away going from 
south to north west

p.s. 2 cops pulled a goof abot 3 min after I left the cab. I was walking down 
the hill to the park when this cop car pulled up + one of them called me over + 
asked if I saw anyone acting suspicious or strange in the last 5 to 10 min + I 
said yes there was this man who was runnig by waveing a gun & the cops peeled 
rubber + went around the corner as I directed them + I disappeared into the 
park a block + a half away never to be seen again. "must print in paper."

Hey pig doesnt it rile you up to have your noze rubed in your booboos?

If you cops think I'm going to take on a bus the way I stated I was, you 
deserve to have holes in your heads. Take one bag of ammonium nitrate 
fertilizer + 1 gal of stove oil & dump a few bags of gravel on top + then set 
the shit off + will positivily ventalate any thing that should be in the way of 
the blast.

The death machine is all ready made. I would have sent you pictures but you 
would be nasty enough to trace them back to developer + then to me, so I shall 
describe my masterpiece to you. The nice part of it is all the parts can be 
bought on the open market with no questions asked.

1 bat. Pow clock -- will run for aprox 1 year
1 photoelectric switch
2 copper leaf springs
2 6V car bat
1 flash light bulb + reflector
1 mirror
2 18" cardboard tubes black with shoe polish inside + oute

Mirror
bus
Bombs (1 bag each)
6V Bat
6V Bat
bus goes bang car
pass es by ok.

the system checks out from one end to the other in my tests. What you do not 
know is whether the death machine is at the sight or whether it is being stored 
in my basement for future use. I think you do not have the manpower to stop 
this one by continually searching the road sides looking for this thing. + it 
wont do to re roat + re schedule the busses because the bomb can be adapted to 
new conditions.



Have fun!! By the way it could be rather messy if you try to bluff me.

PS. Be shure to print the part I marked out on page 3 or I shall do my thing.

To prove that I am the Zodiac, Ask the Vallejo cop about my electric gun sight 
which I used to start my collecting of slaves.


Mery Xmass + New Year

Mr. Melvin M. Belli
1228 Mtgy
San Fran Calif


Dear Melvin
This is the Zodiac speaking I wish you a happy Christmass. The one thing I ask 
of you is this, please help me. I cannot reach out because of this thing in me 
won't let me. I am finding it extreamly dificult to keep in check I am afraid I 
will loose control again and take my nineth & posibly tenth victom. Please help 
me I am drownding. At the moment the children are safe from the bomb because it 
is so massive to dig in & the triger mech requires so much work to get it 
adjusted just right. But if I hold back too long from no nine I will loose 
complet all controol of my self & set the bomb up. Please help me I can not 
remain in control for much longer.

Editor

Editor
San Fran. Chronicle
San Francisco, Calif.


This is the Zodiac speaking
By the way have you cracked the last cipher I sent you?
My name is --

I am mildly cerous as to how much money you have on my head now. I hope you do 
not think that I was the one who wiped out that blue meannie with a bomb at the 
cop station. Even though I talked about killing school children with one. It 
just wouldn't doo to move in on someone else's teritory. But there is more 
glory in killing a cop than a cid because a cop can shoot back. I have killed 
ten people to date. It would have been a lot more except that my bus bomb was a 
dud. I was swamped out by the rain we had a while back.

The new bomb is set up like this

Sun light in early morning
Bus
Sun
A B
String of Bombs
A
Car Bat
Timer
B

A + B are photoelectric
swiches when sun beam
is broken A closes circut
" " B opens "
which makes B the
cloudy day discon-
-ect so the bomb
won't go off by accid.
PS I hope you have fun trying
to figgure out who I killed
=10 SFPD=0

I hope you enjoy your selves when I have my Blast.

P.S. on back

If you don't want me to have this blast you must do two things. 1 Tell everyone 
about the bus bomb with all the details. 2 I would like to see some nice Zodiac 
butons wandering about town. Every one else has these buttons like, , black 
power, Melvin eats bluber, etc. Well it would cheer me up considerably if I saw 
a lot of people wearing my buton. Please no nasty ones like Melvin's
Thank you 

S.F. Chronicle
San Fran.
Calif.


This is the Zodiac speaking.
I have become very upset with the people of San fran Bay Area. They have not 
complied with my wishes for them to wear some nice  buttons. I promised to 
punish them if they did not comply, by anilating a full School Buss. But now 
school is out for the summer, so I punished them in another way. I shot a man 
sitting in a parked car with a .38.
-12 SFPD-0
The map coupled with this code will tell you where the bomb is set. You have 
untill next Fall to dig it up. 

0 is to be set to Mag. N.
3
6
9


S.F. Chronicle
San Fran. Calif


This is the Zodiac speaking.
I am rather unhappy because you people will not wear some nice  buttons. So I 
now have a little list, starting with the woeman + her baby that I gave a 
rather intersting ride for a couple howers one evening a few months back that 
ended in my burning her car where I found them.

S.F. Chronicle
San Fran. Claif.


This is the Zodiac speaking
Being that you will not wear some nice  buttons, how about wearing some nasty 
buttons. Or any type of  buttons that you can think up. If you do not wear any 
type of  buttons, I shall (on top of everything else) torture all 13 of my 
slaves that I have wateing for me in Paradice. Some I shall tie over ant hills 
and watch them scream + twich and squirm. Others shall have pine splinters 
driven under their nails + then burned. Others shall be placed in cages + fed 
salt beef untill they are gorged then I shall listen to their pleass for water 
and I shall laugh at them. Others will hang by their thumbs + burn in the sun 
then I will rub them down with deep heat to warm them up. Others I shall skin 
them alive + let them run around screaming. And all billiard players I shall 
have them play in a darkened dungen cell with crooked cues + Twisted Shoes. Yes 
I shall have great fun inflicting the most delicious of pain to my slaves
SFPD=0 =13

As some day it may hapen that a victom must be found. I've got a little list. 
I've got a little list, of society offenders who might well be underground who 
would never be missed who would never be missed. There is the pestulentual 
nucences who whrite for autographs, all people who have flabby hands and 
irritating laughs. All children who are up in dates and implore you with im 
platt. All people who are shakeing hands shake hands like that. And all third 
persons who with unspoiling take thoes who insist. They'd none of them be 
missed. They'd none of them be missed. There's a banjo seranader and the others 
of his race and the piano orginast I got him on the list. All people who eat 
pepermint and phomphit in your face, they would never be missed They would 
never be missed And the Idiout who phraises with inthusastic tone of centuries 
but this and every country but his own. And the lady from the provences who 
dress like a guy who doesn't cry and the singurly abnormily the girl who never 
kissed. I don't think she would be missed Im shure she wouldn't be missed. And 
that nice impriest that is rather rife the judicial hummerest I've got him on 
the list. All funny fellows, commic men and clowns of private life. They'd none 
of them be missed. They'd none of them be missed. And uncompromising kind such 
as wachmacallit, thingmebob, and like wise, well - - nevermind, and tut tut tut 
tut, and whashisname, and you know who, but the task of filling up the blanks I 
rather leave up to you. But it really doesn't matter whom you place upon the 
list, for none of them be missed, none of them be missed.

PS. The Mt. Diablo Code concerns Radians & # inches along the radians


San Francisco Chronicle
S.F.
Mon. Oct 5, 1970
Dear Editor,
You'll hate me, but I've got to tell you.
The pace isn't any slower! In fact it's just one big thirteenth
13
'Some of them fought it was horrible'
P.S. THERE ARE REPORTS city police pig cops are closeing in on me. Fk I'm 
crackproof, What is the price tag now?
Zodiac 

sorry no cipher
sorry no cipher

Z

Paul Averly
S.F. Chronicle
5th - Mission
S.F.


PARADICE
SLAVES
By Fire
By Gun
By Knife
By Rope
4-Teen

PEEK-A-BOO
YOU ARE DOOMED!

4-TEEN
BOO!
Z


AIR Mail

The L.A. Times
Los Angeles Calif
Please Rush to Editor
AIR Mail


This is the Zodiac speaking
Like I have allways said, I am crack proof. If the Blue Meannies are evere 
going to catch me, they had best get off their fat asses + do something. 
Because the longer they fiddle + fart around, the more slaves I will collect 
for my after life. I do have to give them credit for stumbling across my 
riverside activity, but they are only finding the easy ones, there are a hell 
of a lot more down there. The reason I'm writing to the Times is this, They 
don't bury me on the back pages like some of the others.
SFPD-0-17+

Zodiac

The Times
S.F. Examiner
San Francisco Chronicle

Att. Paul Averly = ChronicLe


Sierra Club

around in the snow

Sought victim 12
"Peek through the pines,"
pass LAKE TAHOE areas



San Fran. Chronicle
Please Rush To Editor


I saw and think "The Exorcist" was the best saterical comidy that I have ever 
seen. Signed, yours truley:
He plunged himself into the billowy wave and an echo arose from the suicide's 
grave
titwillo titwillo titwillo
PS. If I do not see this note in your paper, I will do something nasty, which 
you know I'm capable of doing.

Me - 37
SFPD - 0


Editor
San Francisco Chronicle
San Francisco, California


Dear Mr. Editor,

Did you know that the initials SLAY (Symbionese Liberation Army) spell "sla," 
an old Norse word meaning "kill."

a friend


Editor
SF Chronicle
5th + Mission
San Fran


"Editor, SF Chronicle, 5th + Mission, San Fran". 

Sirs -- I would like to expression my consternt consternation concerning your 
poor taste + lack of sympathy for the public, as evidenced by your running of 
the ads for the movie "Badlands," featuring the blurb: "In 1959 most people 
were killing time. Kit + Holly were killing people." In light of recent events, 
this kind of murder-glorification can only be deplorable at best (not that 
glorification of violence was ever justifiable) why don't you show some concern 
for public sensibilities + cut the ad?

A citizen


R.P.

Editor
San Francisco Chronicle
San Francisco, California


Editor--

Put Marco back in the, hell-hole from whence it came -- he has a serious 
psychological disorder -- always needs to feel superior. I suggest you refer 
him to a shrink. Meanwhile, cancel the Count Marco column. Since the Count can 
write anonymously, so can I --

The Red Phantom
(red with rage)


Dear Editor This is the Zodiac speaking I am back with you. Tell herb caen I am 
here, I have always been here. That city pig toschi is good ' but I am smarter 
and better he will get tired then leave me alone.I am waiting for a good movie 
about me. who will play me. I am now in control of all things.
             Yours truly:
-guess

   SFPD- 0

