This is the Zodiac speaking up to the end of Oct I have killed 7 people. I have 
grown rather angry with the police for their telling lies about me. So I shall 
change the way the collecting of slaves. I shall no longer announce to anyone. 
When I committ my murders, they shall look like routine robberies, killings of 
anger, + a few fake accidents, etc.

The police shall never catch me, because I have been too clever for them.

1 I look like the description passed out only when I do my thing, the rest of 
the time I look entirle different. I shall not tell you what my descise 
consists of when I kill

2 As of yet I have left no fingerprints behind me contrary to what the police 
say in my killings I wear transparent fingertip guards. All it is is 2 coats of 
airplane cement coated on my fingertips -- quite unnoticible + very efective

3 my killing tools have been boughten through the mail order outfits before the 
ban went into efect. Except one & it was bought out of the state. So as you can 
see the police don't have much to work on. If you wonder why I was wipeing the 
cab down I was leaving fake clews for the police to run all over town with, as 
one might say, I gave the cops som bussy work to do to keep them happy. I enjoy 
needling the blue pigs. Hey blue pig I was in the park -- you were useing fire 
trucks to mask the sound of your cruzeing prowl cars. The dogs never came with 
in 2 blocks of me + they were to the west + there was only 2 groups of parking 
about 10 min apart then the motor cicles went by about 150 ft away going from 
south to north west

p.s. 2 cops pulled a goof abot 3 min after I left the cab. I was walking down 
the hill to the park when this cop car pulled up + one of them called me over + 
asked if I saw anyone acting suspicious or strange in the last 5 to 10 min + I 
said yes there was this man who was runnig by waveing a gun & the cops peeled 
rubber + went around the corner as I directed them + I disappeared into the 
park a block + a half away never to be seen again. "must print in paper."

Hey pig doesnt it rile you up to have your noze rubed in your booboos?

If you cops think I'm going to take on a bus the way I stated I was, you 
deserve to have holes in your heads. Take one bag of ammonium nitrate 
fertilizer + 1 gal of stove oil & dump a few bags of gravel on top + then set 
the shit off + will positivily ventalate any thing that should be in the way of 
the blast.

The death machine is all ready made. I would have sent you pictures but you 
would be nasty enough to trace them back to developer + then to me, so I shall 
describe my masterpiece to you. The nice part of it is all the parts can be 
bought on the open market with no questions asked.

1 bat. Pow clock -- will run for aprox 1 year
1 photoelectric switch
2 copper leaf springs
2 6V car bat
1 flash light bulb + reflector
1 mirror
2 18" cardboard tubes black with shoe polish inside + oute

Mirror
bus
Bombs (1 bag each)
6V Bat
6V Bat
bus goes bang car
pass es by ok.

the system checks out from one end to the other in my tests. What you do not 
know is whether the death machine is at the sight or whether it is being stored 
in my basement for future use. I think you do not have the manpower to stop 
this one by continually searching the road sides looking for this thing. + it 
wont do to re roat + re schedule the busses because the bomb can be adapted to 
new conditions.



Have fun!! By the way it could be rather messy if you try to bluff me.

PS. Be shure to print the part I marked out on page 3 or I shall do my thing.

To prove that I am the Zodiac, Ask the Vallejo cop about my electric gun sight 
which I used to start my collecting of slaves.
