This is the Zodiac speaking
Being that you will not wear some nice  buttons, how about wearing some nasty 
buttons. Or any type of  buttons that you can think up. If you do not wear any 
type of  buttons, I shall (on top of everything else) torture all 13 of my 
slaves that I have wateing for me in Paradice. Some I shall tie over ant hills 
and watch them scream + twich and squirm. Others shall have pine splinters 
driven under their nails + then burned. Others shall be placed in cages + fed 
salt beef untill they are gorged then I shall listen to their pleass for water 
and I shall laugh at them. Others will hang by their thumbs + burn in the sun 
then I will rub them down with deep heat to warm them up. Others I shall skin 
them alive + let them run around screaming. And all billiard players I shall 
have them play in a darkened dungen cell with crooked cues + Twisted Shoes. Yes 
I shall have great fun inflicting the most delicious of pain to my slaves
SFPD=0 =13

As some day it may hapen that a victom must be found. I've got a little list. 
I've got a little list, of society offenders who might well be underground who 
would never be missed who would never be missed. There is the pestulentual 
nucences who whrite for autographs, all people who have flabby hands and 
irritating laughs. All children who are up in dates and implore you with im 
platt. All people who are shakeing hands shake hands like that. And all third 
persons who with unspoiling take thoes who insist. They'd none of them be 
missed. They'd none of them be missed. There's a banjo seranader and the others 
of his race and the piano orginast I got him on the list. All people who eat 
pepermint and phomphit in your face, they would never be missed They would 
never be missed And the Idiout who phraises with inthusastic tone of centuries 
but this and every country but his own. And the lady from the provences who 
dress like a guy who doesn't cry and the singurly abnormily the girl who never 
kissed. I don't think she would be missed Im shure she wouldn't be missed. And 
that nice impriest that is rather rife the judicial hummerest I've got him on 
the list. All funny fellows, commic men and clowns of private life. They'd none 
of them be missed. They'd none of them be missed. And uncompromising kind such 
as wachmacallit, thingmebob, and like wise, well - - nevermind, and tut tut tut 
tut, and whashisname, and you know who, but the task of filling up the blanks I 
rather leave up to you. But it really doesn't matter whom you place upon the 
list, for none of them be missed, none of them be missed.

PS. The Mt. Diablo Code concerns Radians & # inches along the radians
