The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** 1970 Letters ******

April 1970

The two April 1970 letters, though relatively short, contain clues to the
Zodiac killers name and the identity of a recent victim (Shelly Holmboe),
remind us of a geometric metaphor for revealing that identity (180?), hint at
the burial location of the next Zodiac victim (Donna Lass in Dragon Plaza), and
specify the WHERE and WHEN of The Terminus Event still 19 years in the future.

Because neither letter was mailed immediately following a murder event (if
youre going by my own time-line, the most recent murder had occurred on March
29th), one may assume the content of these letters was fixed at the outset.

In other words, the Zodiac killer wasnt commenting on recent police activity,
as he did in the letters following Paul Stines murder.

Keep in mind that the murders of Shelly Holmboe, Robert Salem, Donna Lass, and
Joan Webster were intended to be non-public events, in the sense that no living
person would see him commit them, and he would not acknowledge them afterward.
 
This is essentially what the Zodiac killer means when he says, on page 1 of the
November 9, 1969 Bus Bomb Diagram Letter, that

I shall no longer announce to anyone
when I comitt my murders
they shall look like routine
robberies, killings of anger, +
a few fake accidents, etc

Perhaps the most significant information, found in the second letter, is the
suggestion that The Terminus Event will include a BLAST of some kind.

Since we know that event was at least partly scheduled for The MIT Tower,
pictured in Michael OHares maiden journal article in 1967, a BLAST would
suggest an explosion, perhaps one large enough to level the structure.



Could the Zodiac killer really bring down an entire building?

We of the post-9/11 world have recurring nightmares of skyscrapers crumbling in
criminal catastrophes, but in 1970 few people (and few engineers, for that
matter) would have imagined such things were possible.

On the other hand, as an engineer and architect, Michael OHare would have been
familiar with the methods of demolition for just about any edifice.

And, on page 4 of the letter quoted above, the Zodiac killer does mention an
ammonium nitrate fertilizer bomb of the type that would, in 1995, be used to
bring down The Murrah Federal Building in Oklahoma City.


April 1970 Letters Facts

The April 1970 letters are the 9th and 10th mailings in The Bay Area.

On April 20, 1970, the Zodiac killer mailed The 13-Character Cipher Letter:



. . . and, on a second page containing another bomb diagram,

PS I hope you have fun trying
to figgure out who I killed

On April 28, 1970, the Zodiac killer mailed his second commercial greeting
card, commonly called "The Dragon Card", but I'm going to call it "The Little
Dragon Card" for reasons I'll explain in a future chapter:



. . . and then, on the back,

I would like to see some nice Zodiac butons wandering about town.
Everyone else has these buttons . . .

 . . . and then,

Well it would cheer me up considerbly if I saw a lot of people wearing my
buton.

Isnt it odd that he TWICE misspells a word that he also correctly spells
elsewhere in the letter?
Its almost as if hes doing it on purpose!

My Name

The 13-Character Cipher purports to reveal the Zodiac killers name.

I think this is accurate, but not in the way people think.

As I said before, I have different names depending on whos talking to me.

Im Raymond to my family, Im Ray to my friends (a slightly smaller
group!), Im Grant to those addressing me officially, or at least Mr.
Grant.  And Im also RG.

Note that The Cryptogram is 24 lines of 17 columns.

Note that The 340 is 20 lines of 17 columns.

The 13-Character Cipher is 1 line of 13 columns.

The 32-Character Cipher is 2 lines of 17 and 15 columns.

If you eliminate all the lines of 17, what are you left with?

13, then 15.

Whats the 13th letter of the alphabet?

M.

Whats the 15th letter of the alphabet?

O.

What are Michael OHares initials?


SH

But The 13-Character Cipher Letter also names someone else.

I said all the Zodiac ciphers could be decoded using the same letter values as
were used in The Cryptogram.  Lets translate The 13-Character Cipher that way
and see what we get:


W E E D 8S 8H 8 ?E W H

Hmmm . . . two Ws!  What a surprise!

And those first four letters sure look familiar, somehow!

     W     E     E     D
     23 + 5  +  5 +  4 = 37

That's right.  It's our old friend, 37!

"My name is . . . 3, followed by 7 decimal digits of pi."

And the reference is symmetrical, meaning two things at once: 3.1415926 spells
out an anagram of ZODIAC, and pi in binary spells out M.ERAHO.

By the way, I'm a little tired of hearing my Baby Block Cryptography called
'numerology' by people who obviously don't know what numerology is.

Here are a couple excerpts from the Wikipedia page on Numerology:

Number definitions
There are no set definitions for the meaning of specific digits. Common
examples include:[5]
1. Individual. Aggressor. Yang.
2. Balance. Union. Receptive. Yin.
3. Communication/interaction. Neutrality.
4. Creation.
5. Action. Restlessness.
6. Reaction/flux. Responsibility.
7. Thought/consciousness.
8. Power/sacrifice.
9. Highest level of change.
Some lucky number combinations include:
    * 99  doubly long in time, hence eternal; used in the name of a popular
      Chinese-American supermarket chain, 99 Ranch Market.
    * 168  road of prosperity or to be prosperous together  literal
      translation is "continuing to be wealthy" many premium-pay telephone
      numbers in China begin with this number. It is also the name of a motel
      chain in China (Motel 168).
    * 518  I will prosper, other variations include: 5189 (I will prosper for
      a long time), 516289 (I will get on a long, smooth prosperous road) and
      5918 (I will soon prosper)
    * 814  Similar to 168, this means "be wealthy, entire life". 148 also
      implies the same meaning "entire life be wealthy".
    * 888  Three times the prosperity, means "wealthy wealthy wealthy". (E.g.,
      the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing were designated by the Chinese
      officials to begin on the most auspicious date possible to ensure the
      success of the Games for its hosts: August 8, 2008on the 8th day, of the
      8th month in the 8th year of the new millennium.)
    * 1314  whole lifetime, existence.
    * 289  This combination is quite straightforward: ease in finding enough
      luck/fortune and holding it for a long time. (2 is easy, 8 is fortune, 9
      is enough and/or for a long time)

In other words, numerology is a system where numbers have a particular meaning
that's been assigned to them (usually within the context of a particular
culture).  The numbers I cite as occurring over and over again in the Zodiac
literature have meaning ONLY as they apply to Michael O'Hare (e. g., his DOB),
or as an allusion to mathematical concepts like pi.  The numbers are
significant as numbers, and within the context of The Zodiac Project.
   
W E E D 8S 8H 8 ?E W H

As you can see, theres a central SH which is flanked by 8-balls.

Being behind the 8-ball traditionally means one is doomed.

I believe the SH referred to at the center is Shelly Holmboe.

The Zodiac killer often sends a follow-up letter 6 months after a murder, and
the April 20, 1970 letter would have been six months after the Shelly Holmboe
murder.

So this is a reminder that he did kill Shelly Holmboe.

He also says, in this very letter,

PS I hope you have fun trying
to figgure out who I killed.

I dont think he could have been much more blatant than that.

     E     W     H
     5  + 23 +  8 = 36

If going from 37 to 36 is a backward progression, it might make sense that one
sees SH (Shelly Holmboe) as a previous victim when one looks back.

If pi is represented by 37, but the entire line adds up to 73 (37+36), it might
suggest that, though ZODIAC is 3 followed by 7 decimal digits, his real name is
reversed within the binary form of pi (M.ERAHO).

Finally, if the whole line is 73, and The Zodiac Project begins as a halfway
point in Riverside, then the doubling of that value will get you to The End (73
x 2 = 146, just as "Seeger x2" is written at The End of The 18 Letters, Alan
Seeger having been born on 73rd Street).


Wizard Pairs

As Gareth Penn has pointed out, the word

WIZARD

is constructed entirely of pairs of letters which are the same distance from
the ends of the alphabet, and so for that reason, cancel each other out
cryptically.

A B C D E F G H  I  J K L M
Z Y X W V U T S R Q P O N

For this reason, Shelly Holmboe is a kind of living Wizard-pair.

Her initials are S-H, which would cancel each other out, using this system.

In that sense, shes a natural target.


Six Months

Why would the Zodiac killer bring up Shelly Holmboe again, six months after her
murder? If hes already claimed her as a victim with The Oakland PD phone call,
why mention her again?

For the same reason he sends letters in Riverside six months after the Cheri
Bates murder.

As I said in the Intro Section, 180? is a metaphor for a secret identity.

And six months is approximately 180 days.

So in six months, the Zodiac killer sends you another clue to his identity,
usually in the form of an acknowledgment of some aspect of one of his crimes.


Little Dragon Card

The Little Dragon Card of April 28, 1970, looks ahead to several events in the
future, one taking place in October that same year, the other in 1989.

The word Dragon is simply a reference to the storefront located at 739 Clay
Street in Chinatown, where Donna Lass, who is kidnapped and probably murdered
on September 6, 1970, will be buried on October 5, 1970.

The name of the Chinese storefront/business was DRAGON PLAZA (now DRAGON SEED).




On October 5, 1970, the Zodiac killer will bury Donna Lasss body just across
the street from DRAGON PLAZA.



The Little Dragon Card is mailed six months prior to The Halloween Card of
October 27, 1970, which also references the burial.

So the mailing of April 20, 1970 looks back six months.

And the mailing of April 28, 1970 looks ahead six months.

The two letters behave like the Roman god Janus, looking in two different
directions at once, the faces 180? apart.


Blast

Lets look at BLAST in alphabet numbers:

B    L     A     S      T
2 + 12 + 1 + 19 + 20 = 54

BLAST is 54.

Thats interesting for two reasons.

Dragon Plaza was the site of Benchmark 54 of the United States Geological
Surveys map of San Francisco; its embedded in a wall beside the storefront
(my friend Ricardo says it's still there, by the way, but painted-over).

So the address has geological significance.

But 54 is also the building number of The Earth Sciences Building at MIT, which
is also called The MIT Tower, which is also designated, on campus, as Building
54.




Let me suggest that thats what the Zodiac killer had in store for the MIT
Tower on Friday, August 11, 1989--a BLAST.

By the way, if Michael O'Hare DID somehow blow up Building 54, what would be
the result?

"Wind Whistles Through MIT Tower"?

So the title of his maiden journal article wouldn't just be a grad student's
analysis of a design flaw in a prominent building.

It would be a bold prediction, made by one of the most notorious criminals of
the 20th century, of a terrible act of domestic terrorism approximately 23
years in the future.

By the way, it's worth noting that if my reading of The 18 Letters is correct,
and the area of The MIT Tower targeted by the BLAST was Room 929, that the
result would be (assuming the explosive charge was powerful enough) to blow the
building literally in half (since The Tower itself is 18 stories high).  Thus,
The MIT Tower itself, in its final form (before the later demolition of the
ruins), would represent his having cut his life CLEAN in half.


P. R.

Note how important it is to the Zodiac killer that all his letters be published
for the public to see. Note that Ive illustrated, here in my book, that the
murders and letters and other information are, for the most part, sequential in
nature.

If the newspapers suddenly decide to hold back letters (which they do after the
June 1970 Mt. Diablo Letter), the public will only get a partial view of the
puzzle.

Keep in mind, also, as the David Fincher movie Zodiac makes clear in whats
intended to be a comical sequence, that The Cryptogram was solved not by the
FBI, CIA, NSA, or any other intelligence agency, but in the breakfast nook of
Donald and Bettye Harden.

At least, that's what the police want us to believe.

The Zodiac killer clearly has more faith in the general public than he does in
the police and newspapersperhaps with good reason.


Buton

Speaking of publicity, in The Little Dragon Card the Zodiac killer for the
first time asked people to wear buttons in his honor

I would like
to see some nice Zodiac butons
wandering about town.

Thats unusually whimsical for the Zodiac killer. Oddly enough, he would also
talk about wanting to see people wearing buttons in the next three lettersin
four letters in all, spanning a time period from April 28, 1970 to July 25,
1970.

3 + 31 + 30 + 25 = 89

Thats a span of 89 days.

And were talking about a Blast that will occur in 89.

He also misspells the word BUTTON twice in the first letter.

B    U      T      O     N
2 + 21 + 20 + 15 + 14 = 72

By alphabet numbers, BUTON is 72.

   B     U   T  O   N
1000 001 1 111 10 = 4222

By Morse/binary, BUTON is 4222.

Since the BLAST refers to Building 54 on the MIT campus, The Earth Sciences
Building, maybe these two numbers, 72 and 4222, somehow have to do with that
building?

     72           4222

The earth coordinates of The MIT Tower are roughly

     71? W     42? 2 N

Its not a perfect match, but that would have been hard to come by, since youd
have to get one coordinate from alphabet numbers and the other from Morse/
binary, and youd have to get both numbers from the same word.

BUTON was the closest they could get . . . and its very close.


April 1970 Review


  1. The 13-Character Cipher names the Zodiac killer: M-O.

  2. The cipher also contains Shelly Holmbos initials: S-H.

  3. Shelly Holmbos initials are flanked by 8-balls; i. e., she was doomed.

  4. The letter is also mailed six months following the murder.

  5. Six months is 180 days; 180? is a secret identity.

  6. Shelly Holmbos initials are a Wizard-pair.

  7. The Little Dragon Card evokes 739 Clay StreeDragon Plaza (now Dragon
Seed).

  8. 739 Clay Street is where Donna Lass is buried.

  9. BLAST is 54 by alphabet numbers.

10. 739 Clay Street is Benchmark 54 by USGS designation.

11. The MIT Tower is Building 54 on the MIT campus.

12. The event prepared for Room 929 in Building 54 is a BLAST.

13. The Zodiac demands publicity so more people can work on the puzzle.

14. BUTON is 72 by alphabet numbers, 4222 by Morse/binary.

15. The MIT Tower is 71? W, 42? 2 N by USGS coordinates (roughly!).

16. BLAST tells us WHAT will happen; BUTON tells us WHERE it will happen.

17. The BLAST is predicted in his maiden journal article's very first words.


The Mt. Diablo Letter

The Mt. Diablo Letter of June 26, 1970 and its follow-up, The Mikado Letter of
July 25, 1970, are arguably the most-discussed letters in the Zodiac killer
canon, containing as they do what many Zodiac buffs consider the most important
clue to his puzzle: The Mt. Diablo Radian.


Mt. Diablo Facts

On June 26, 1970, the Zodiac killer mailed a new letter to The San Francisco
Chronicle, consisting of a single page of text . . .



. . . and an annotated section of a Phillips 66 service station map.



Magic

I've mentioned in previous chapters that the Zodiac killer's intent was to
reveal his identity in everything he did, and that the disguise he used most
often was misdirection.

The best magician is the one who keeps his hands in full view at all times, but
who still manages to fool us by getting us to LOOK THE WRONG WAY while the real
action of the trick takes place elsewhere.

The reader may remember the hustler/magician in the movie Restoration. All he
used was three playing cards, which looked quite tattered, in doing his trick.
One of the cards was a queen, the other two were aces, and the magician would
show each card to the customer (played by Robert Downey, Jr., of all people!),
dropping them one by one onto a faded checkerboard, and then say, Find the
lady!

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ocudepyO90Y&feature=related 

Sometimes, LOOKING THE WRONG WAY means staring DIRECTLY at the clues, but
looking the wrong way AT them. The Zodiac killer uses TWO queens (Donna Lass
and Joan Webster) but one ace (misdirection).

Perhaps the best example of that misdirection is to be found in The Mt. Diablo
Letter.

At the bottom of the letter, the Zodiac killer says

The Map coupled with this
code will tell you where the
bomb is set. You have untill
next Fall to dig it up.

Does the reader notice anything ambiguous about that statement?

For the past 40 years, readers of this letter have taken 'The Map' to mean the
service station map, and 'this code' to mean the 32 cipher symbols at the
bottom of the page.

But . . . since he doesn't specify which is which . . . what if he DOESNT mean
that?

What if 'The Map' is actually the 32 cipher symbols?

And what if 'this code' is actually the section of the service station map?

Ridiculous, you say?

Why?  Because the Zodiac killer didnt TELL US he was trying to misdirect us
that way?

Well, no.  Of course not!

Just as a hustler/magician doesn't look up in mid-trick and say, "Notice what
my hands are doing over here . . ."

The intent was to reveal his identity to us, but in such a way that we missed
getting the message after all. That's where the fun lies in any puzzle. You put
the solution in front of the viewer, but he has to stumble through a maze of
misdirection to find it.

The Zodiac killer's genius, if you want to call it that, is that the entire
world is still trapped in that maze, more than 40 years after the mailing!

32-Character Cipher

How is The 32-Character Cipher a map?

Ive stated that the Zodiac killer murdered two women, his final two individual
victims (Donna Lass and Joan Webster) in order to place them in specific
locations on the landscape.

The 32-Character Cipher is a map IF the positioning of the cipher symbols
somehow locates one or both of those victims somewhere on planet Earth.

Lets go back to The 13-Character Cipher, mailed April 20, 1970.



Remember: I said that the central two symbols, K-M, flanked by 8-balls, stand
for the same thing they stood for in The CryptogramS-H. Let's translate the
entire cipher that way:

W E E D (8-ball) S (8-ball) H (8-ball) ? E W H

Thus, Shelly Holmboe (S-H) is positioned in The 13-Character Cipher in a
central location. Theres a reason for putting her there, which I will discuss
in the next chapter where I review all four ciphers. For now, all the reader
needs to know is that the SH isnt just thematically the centerpiece of that
cipher; it is also physically the central element.

With that in mind, lets look at The 32-Character Cipher:



If a pair of initials can stand for a persons physical location in space,
certainly a single symbol can do the same thing. But which symbol in The 32 is
the best candidate for that role?



This is the Greek letter Omega, upper and lower case.  I find it interesting
that the lower case form closely resembles the English letter W, the 23rd
letter of our alphabet.

As Gareth Penn states several times in his book, Times 17, the Greek letter
Omega appears just once in the entire Zodiac literature, as the 13th character
(coincidentally, we just had a cipher that was 13 characters in total) of the
first line (which consists of 17 characters) of The 32. Gareth furthermore
associates that character with Joan Webster, whom he calls the Zodiac killers
last victim.

If the reader has been paying attention all this time, hes probably already
tired of hearing that I predicted a criminal catastrophe in 1989 that would
combine aspects of The Oklahoma City Bombing (a building demolition) and The
Texas Tower Sniper Incident of August 1, 1966 (a mass murder sniper event), the
pair of which I refer to as The Terminus Event.

The Terminus Event's venues were spelled out in the final 18 letters of the
Zodiacs Cryptogram, and scheduled in the word VALLEJO atop the car door
message, for Friday, August 11, 1989.

In other words, I expected the Zodiac killer to go out with a very big BANG.

If Joan Webster was really his final victim, this was obviously wrong.

But was I wrong?

Gareth Penn makes note of the letter Omega in The 32, and says that the Zodiac
killer meant for it to refer to Joan Webster, who was intended to be the last
victim. Thus, his use of the last Greek letter, Omega, which is often used to
designate something final (as in The Alpha and The Omega, which means The
First and The Last).

In other words, Omega stands for Joan Webster BECAUSE the Zodiac killer
designated her as the final victim. But, since weve deciphered The 18 Letters,
we know thats wrong.

Picket Fence

Lets look at something else Gareth says and does in Times 17.

On page 182 of Times 17, Gareth discusses a possible location for Joan
Websters body.

Gareth looks around the state of Massachusetts for possible burial places, and
notices an area near Concord called Goose Pond on the map. The positioning of
the two letter Os on the map is crucial. When he drives out to investigate
the area, he sees that a picket fence has been constructed in a circle exactly
where one of the Os would be on the map. Gareth has a group of his volunteers
dig down several feet, and they come up with nothing but tree roots.

This is an example of the Zodiac killer literally acting out a deciphering
technique. As Ill demonstrate in a moment, he also does it when he murders
Shelly Holmboe. But lets take a look at that picket fence that so fascinated
Gareth.

Joan Webster

J       W

10     23

As you can see, Joan Websters initials are J-W.

By alphabet numbers, this is 10-23.

The number 1023 has a peculiar property in binary math: it consists entirely of
1-digits.

1111111111 = 1023

1023 is what is called, in binary math, a picket fence number.

Here are some other examples:


1 = 1
11 = 3
111 = 7
1111 = 15
11111 = 31

Essentially, a picket fence number is a power of two minus one.

1024 is 2 to the 10th power. 1023 is 2 to the 10th, minus one.

Whats the significance of a picket fence number?

In this case, it allows Gareth Penn to make a demonstration, in the physical
world, of a deciphering technique. He has his volunteers travel to the picket
fence enclosing a circle of ground at Goose Pond. The fence itself, a foot high
and seven feet in diameter, was undoubtedly put there by Gareth Penn and
Michael OHare. In any case, the volunteers dig down inside it to about four
feet, finding nothing.  In the book, his helpers dissipate in disgust.

But oddly enough, Gareths point has been made.  If you really want to find
Joan Websters burial location, you have to dig down inside the picket fence.

The picket fence, in this case, is Joan Websters (JWs) name.

    J     O  A   N   W  E    B     S  T E  R
0111 111 01 10 011 0 1000 000 1 0 010

011111101100110100000010010

01 111 11 0 110 01
       O  M  E  G  A

As you can see, the word OMEGA can be found inside Joan Websters name, simply
by converting that name to Morse code and redividing the digits (or for that
matter, the dots and dashes). OMEGA is actually part of JOAN W, so her name
differs from David Faradays (EASTER being found entirely inside DAVID) and
Darlene Ferrin (EASTER being found entirely inside FERRIN) in that sense.

Curt Rowlett made the amazing observation, in August, that when Ray Grant finds
words like EASTER inside the names of victims, its probably just
coincidence.  Wow!  What intellectual rigor!  I cant even hope to match
Curts amazing precision of thought, but I will point out that Omega consists
of 11 characters in Morse code (just like EASTER).

  O  M E   G   A
111 11 0 110 01

11111011001

Lets do the math, shall we, Curt?

A string of 1 digit has 2 to the first power, or 2 different possible
configurations.

1or0

A string of 2 digits has 2 to the second power, or 4 different possible
configurations.

01   00   10   11

So the number of possibilities is always the power of 2 of that number of
digits.

Three digits is 2 to the third, or 8 possibilities.

Four digits is 2 to the fourth, or 16 possibilities, and so forth.

A string of 11 digits will have 2 to the 11th number of possibilities2,048.

The name Joan Webster itself contains 27 characters.

   J     O   A   N   W  E   B     S   T E  R
0111 111 01 10 011 0 1000 000 1 0 010

You can run an 11-digit string 17 times through a name 27 characters long.

That means the string has a 17/2,048 chance of showing up in a name this long.

That means OMEGA will show up about .8% of the time in names as long as Joan
Websters.

If the Zodiac killed a thousand women . . . he might get 8 or 9 OMEGAs, purely
by chance.

I think that proves Curt correct--it's "probably just coincidence".

How does this apply to our examination of The 32?

Omega indicates the exact burial location of Joan Webster, when that first line
of The 32 is superimposed on a map of the Greater Boston area.  Im not going
to demonstrate that in this part of the book, since discussion of the burial
location more properly belongs in a later chapter.

I will also point out that theres another symbol in The 32 that stands for a
buried victim, which Ill discuss it in the NEXT chapter (you have until then
to dig it up).

I will explain how the murder of Shelly Holmboe demonstrates, in the physical
world, the elimination of a Wizard-pair, and Ill do that in THIS chapter, but
during my discussion of the service station map.

In the meantime, I want to emphasize that The 32 is itself a map, and not
really a code.

Which tells us, by a process of elimination, that the service station map isnt
a map, but a code.

Service Station

If the service station map is really a code, what are the components of that
code?


1, the reference to Magnetic North

2, the clock face drawn on Mt. Diablo

3, its name, Phillips 66


One objection to the use of the service station map is that it doesnt contain
one of the Zodiac murder sites (Blue Rock Springs).  This fact has been offered
to PROVE that the Zodiac killer didnt intend a radian to be drawn on the map.

Instead, it is a hint that the document itself (the Phillips 66 map) was never
intended to be used as a map in the first place. But the confusion over map &
code is all part of the problem.

Magnetic North

Lets start with the reference to Magnetic North.

For starters, the Zodiac killer doesn't actually say ANYTHING about Magnetic
North.



He says, "0 is to be set to Mag. N."

For 40 years (actually for just the past dozen or so, since internet message
boards didn't exist before then), people have ASSUMED the Zodiac killer meant
'Magnetic North' when he said 'Mag. N.'.  And there's nothing wrong with that
assumption, but it IS an assumption, isn't it?

I'm just glad I'm not the only one around here making assumptions!

Ed Neil told Jake Wark, "Z never said anything about using murder sites to plot
a radian."

Well, he never said Magnetic North either, Ed.

This reminds me of the old B&M Baked Beans commercial from the 1970s: Ed Neil,
45 years old, and hes never had a baked bean. Ed looks up from his plate of
beans in consternation. Those are STEAMED beans, Ed!  Look at the can!  A
hand from offscreen shoves the label in Eds face.  See the word baked
anywhere???



Ive tried B&M Baked Beans; I prefer steamed beans myself, but then, Im used
to the feeling of having been right all along.

Anyway, thats what I say here: see the words Magnetic North anywhere?

But what could the phrase, "0 is to be set to Mag. N." mean, if it's not a
reference to Magnetic North?  Note, by the way, that the Zodiac capitalizes the
'M' and the 'N' . . . even though if you look up magnetic north, you'll notice
that neither word is capitalized.

We'll come back to this in a moment.

Compass

Since, as Ive suggested any number of times, the Zodiac killer is into
symmetry, lets assume that he wants it BOTH ways.  So let's go with the common
assumption:

"0 is to be set to Magnetic North."

Why would the Zodiac killer be telling us this? Since the declination is
variable over time and dependent on the specific location, we can do all the
calculating we want and we still wont get a specific value that remains the
same over time.

However, it is worth noting that United States Geological Survey maps contain
information used to calculate the declination; service station maps dont. 
This is another hint that the service station map isnt intended to be used as
a map.  If one uses a USGS map instead, one will find that it contains
benchmarks (such as BM 54 at 739 Clay Street in Chinatown).

A more convincing application for magnetic north is that it allows us to set
our compass.

What is a compass, by the way? A compass is an instrument that LOOKS like a
watch, and shares many attributes of a watchit contains a circular dial, and
its findings can be expressed in minutes and seconds.

However, a compass normally allows us to locate ourselves in SPACE; a watch
allows us to locate ourselves in TIME. We know that a compass can also be used
to calculate time:

http://www.exploratorium.edu/science_explorer/sunclock.html

This would hint that a watch can also be used to locate us in SPACE, which it
can if it has a circular dial (i. e., if its not digital), and I think this is
what the Zodiac intended.

Clock Face

Why put a clock face on a map?



Let me suggest that it is one side of yet another symmetrical statement.

If the Zodiac killer can put a clock face on a map (or on what appears to be a
map) . . . can he also put a map on a clock face?



Why not???




By putting a clock face on the map (or what appears to be a map), the Zodiac
killer is reminding us that he's about to claim another victim.  This letter
was sent on June 26, 1970; Donna Lass disappeared on September 6, 1970.  The
murder will occur at the place (Lake Tahoe) suggested by a map put on a clock
face, the Timex watch stopped at 12:22 left beside the body of Cheri Bates.

Found Objects

There are, both in art and literature, such things as found objects.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Found_object

Vladimir Nabokov, in Lolita, refers to Dolores Hazes class roster as a poem;
the technical term for this use of the roster (if it were a real class roster
and not fiction) is "found poem". Perhaps the most famous example of a found
poem is John Lennons Being For The Benefit of Mr. Kite, a song from the
Sergeant Pepper album which consists largely of phrases from a Victorian poster
John had bought in January 1967.

http://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Khsn-nXBxs0

The idea of "found objects" in art goes back at least to the Dadaists such as
Marcel Duchamp:

"The creative act is not performed by the artist alone; the spectator brings
the work in contact with the external world by deciphering and interpreting its
inner qualifications and thus adds his contribution to the creative act."


Duchamp took an actual urinal and gave it a label: "Fountain".




Andy Warhol painted Campbells Soup cans.



Roy Lichtenstein blew up panels from pop comics (sometimes literally).



The Phillips 66 service station map is an example of a found object in the
Zodiac literature. It doesnt originate with him, its just part of the
environment and normally used for another purpose, but he makes annotations on
it and thus makes it an artifact of The Zodiac Project.

Shelly Holmboe Meridian

Shelly Holmboe was murdered on Sunday, October 19, 1969.  Like the two other
Sunday victims (Cheri Bates and Robert Salem), she was stabbed and nearly
decapitated.  As you can see from the USGS map, Peony Lane is a block or so
south of The Mt. Diablo Meridian, and runs parallel to it.  I suspect the baby,
who was kidnapped by the Zodiac, was found on or very near The Mt. Diablo
Meridian.



Shelly Holmboes name has an unusual property. Because the first two letters of
her first name are SH, and her initials are SH, her name has a crossword
characteristic similar to the crossword in The Halloween Card; she is SH in two
directions at once, both North/South and East/West.

SHelly
Holmboe

SH
H

Note also that SH, Heart-Stoppingly, consists entirely of 0s in Morse/binary,
seven of them:

  S     H
000 0000

In Dantes Inferno, the crime punished in Circle 7 is murder.

Thus, Shelly Holmboe is an appropriate murder victim.

I suspect this is at least partly why the Zodiac killer chose her as the Wizard
victim, in addition to her proximity to Mt. Diablo.  He could not reasonably
have dumped her body on VABM 3849 itself, which is the intersection of The Mt.
Diablo Base Line and The Mt. Diablo Meridian, so he was limited to using either
The Mt. Diablo Base Line OR The Mt. Diablo Meridian, and chose the latter. He
had to use a residential area where the murder could merely seem heinous but
not otherwise call attention to itself.

But why commit the murder in the first place?

Living Wizard

Just in case the reader has forgotten about Wizard Pairs, here's what I said
about them earlier:

WIZARD

is constructed entirely of pairs of letters which are the same distance from
the ends of the alphabet, and so for that reason, cancel each other out
cryptically.

1   2  3  4   5  6   7  8  9 10  11 12 13
A  B C  D  E  F  G  H  I   J   K   L  M
Z  Y  X  W V  U  T  S  R  Q  P   O  N

For this reason, Shelly Holmboe is a kind of living Wizard Pair.

Her initials are S-H, which would cancel each other out, using this system.

In that sense, shes a natural target.

8-Ball

Incidentally, note that H/S is the 8th such Wizard Pair in the alphabet.

1   2  3  4   5  6   7  8  9 10  11 12 13
A  B C  D  E  F  G  H  I   J   K   L  M
Z  Y  X  W V  U  T  S  R  Q  P   O  N

Note, also, that the central 'SH' in The 13-Character Cipher, when the symbols
are translated using the same values we find in The Cryptogram, is flanked by
8-balls.


W E E D (8-ball) S (8-ball) H (8-ball) ? E W H


Coincidence?

But I know what Ed Neil's going to say: "The Zodiac never told us he was using
Wizard Pairs."

Uh . . . yes, he did, Ed.

In fact, he did it right there on the map (or what appears to be a map):



Ed, push that plate of beans away and look at this:

0 is to be set to Mag. N.

If that doesn't mean magnetic north, what DOES it mean?

Well, note that neither word in 'magnetic north' is usually capitalized, but
the Zodiac killer capitalizes BOTH the 'M' and the 'N'.  If you're familiar
with word puzzles, capitalized letters should immediately suggest an acrostic:

"0 is to be set to M N."

Or, to turn it into an equation:

"0 = MN."

And what do we know about M and N?  We know they're Wizard Pairs!

So the statement "0 = MN." actually means, ELIMINATE WIZARD PAIRS!

It's a KEY to what he's doing, similar to his signatures in Riverside that say

Z = rh

Z, the 26th letter = r (the 18th letter) + h (the 8th letter)

In other words, HE'S USING ALPHABET NUMBERS!

The Zodiac killer is ELIMINATING WIZARD PAIRS, and Shelly Holmboe was the
living manifestation of a Wizard Pair.  But why bring her up now?

He brings her up now because she's the key to the map code.

Phillips 66

We've talked about the reference to magnetic north, and we've talked about the
clock face drawn on the map, but we haven't talked about the map's brand name.

One of the Zodiac killer's victims was named Phillips.  I mentioned it in the
1990 editions of TZMS, and I think at least one poster mentioned it on the
original archived message board on zodiackiller.com, that Darlene Ferrin was
married to Jim Phillips three years before her murder.  In other words, she was
Phillips in '66.  That isn't the main point he's making by including the map,
but because symmetry is the principal design element of The Zodiac Project, he
gets at least two inferences out of every clue he sends.

The map title is yet another hint that he knew who his victims were before he
killed them.

How does the Zodiac killer know that Darlene Ferrin was once Darlene Phillips? 
Someone with access to state records, such as an agent for the California
Highway Patrol (Hugh Penn), could easily have stumbled over that information
without trying too hard.

Phillips

But the Zodiac killer is more interested in PHILLIPS than he is in Darlene's
marital history.

Remember, he kills Shelly Holmboe to act out a deciphering technique (just as
he digs up a picket fence to do the same).  His intent is to ELIMINATE WIZARD
PAIRS.

What Wizard Pair is he eliminating, in this case?

Heres PHILLIPS:

P H I L L I P S

If you look at PHILLIPS for a moment or two, you will note that it contains a
Wizard Pair:

S-H, but in alphabetical order

Heres PHILLIPS when the Wizard-Pair is removed:

P I L L I P

Note that this produces a palindrome:

P I L L I P

A palindrome is a word or phrase that reads the same, forward and backward.

Here are two examples:

Napoleons Lament: Able was I, ere I saw Elba.

And: A man, a plan, a canalPanama!

Palindromes are dear to the Zodiac killers heart, because a statement that
reads the same forward and backward is symmetrical. A previous example in the
Zodiac literature is my idiosyncratic deciphering of VALLEJO:

V  A   L  L  E  J  O
22 1 12 12 5 10 15

22 1 (122) 5 10 15

221 122     51015

VALLEJO, with the double-Ls read as 12-squared, and then as 122, consists of
two symmetrical numerical statements, 221122 and 51015, placed side-by-side.

The reader will note other structurally symmetrical statements in the Zodiac
killer lore, The 13-Character Cipher for example.



Lets look at PILLIP.

PILLIP

PI          LL         IP

Note that there are two instances of PI, just as there are two burial victims.

PI forward is ZODIAC (3.1415926 = C A D O I Z = ZODIAC).

PI backward is Michael O'Hare (Morse/binary pi = M.ERAHO).

As I'll suggest in the next chapter, each of the two women is murdered by ONE
of those mirror-image identities, thus, the two Ls flanked by forward- and
backward-pi.

PI          LL         IP

P      I
16 + 9 = 25

Both victims were 25 at the time of their deaths.

There were three 8-balls flanking Shelly Holmboes initials in The 13-Character
Cipher.

Three times eight is 24.  'L' is the 12th letter of the alphabet, so 'LL' is
also 24.


PI             LL          IP
25            24          25

We know that 'LL', which for example is all over the Harden solution to The
Cryptogram, is a shorthand form of Michael O'Hare's birth date, January 22nd.

LL = (12)(12)

Numbers written flush in mathematics are meant to be multiplied.

12 x 12 = 122 = 122 = 1-22

Again, that's not algebraically correct, but it is consistent with the Zodiac's
typical "fudging".

But 'LL' also means something else.

Berta Margoulies

In Berta Margouliess biographical entry in Contemporary American Women
Sculptors, Oryx Press, 1986, she includes an artist's statement and a picture
of a sculpture.



My scanner isn't state-of-the-art, so I'll translate the caption under the
photo:

Lost Lady Bronze 6 ft. Photograph by Michael OHare

1, Note that the title of the sculpture is inappropriate. The young woman
depicted would not usually be called a lady (perhaps a young lady), since
we normally think of ladies as mature women.  However, the woman in the
sculpture could easily be in her mid-twenties, and both Donna Lass and Joan
Webster, the two Zodiac burial victims, were 25 years old at the time of their
deaths.  That she's called 'Lost Lady' suggests she hasn't been found as yet.

2, Note that the sculpture has been placed on open ground outside, rather than
indoors, as might be more usual for a sculpture.  That the sculpture has been
placed on open ground might suggest that it belongs outside, even that it
stands as a kind of monument for someone under ground.

3, Note the feet of the sculpture. The inside edges of the feet are sharp and
apparently linear, as if they represent an angle, perhaps like the shadow cast
on the model of The MIT Tower, which is 117? (though there's no way to measure
the angle from the photograph).

4, Note that the figure holds the index finger of her left hand between thumb
and index of her right hand, and that her arms form a line that could easily be
57.29? off horizontal (again, there's no way of measuring this without access
to the sculpture itself).

5, Note that her head looks sharply to the left at what appears to be a 90?
angle.

Another picture of this particular sculpture is available at:

http://books.google.com/
books?id=eugCAAAAMBAJ&pg=PA70&lpg=PA70&dq=lost+lady+berta+margoulies&source=bl&ots=iL-
RI461ec&sig=oMYOsMiKgWdWjAHkWIyx0tlTXQY&hl=en&ei=ts7cTPizHobGlQez1qjdBQ&sa=X&oi=book_result&ct=result&resnum=1&ved=0CBUQ6AEwAA#v=onepage&q=lost%20lady%20berta%20margoulies&f=false

The Lost Lady presented in the sculpture is BOTH Donna Lass and Joan Webster,
and she is also the 'LL' in the center of PHILLIPS, once the Wizard Pair of HS
is removed.

The Zodiac killer is saying the same thing the hustler/magician in Restoration
says:

"Find the Lady!"

And I'm saying the same thing the Meg Ryan character says:

"Simple!"

Mt. Diablo Review

About half the material that pertains to The Mt. Diablo Letter I've put off
until the next chapter, either because it has to do with radians, or because
I'm reviewing all four ciphers there and I don't want to present material on
The 32 that has a more general context than just what's going on in those two
lines.

  1. Just to remind everyone of what I'd said previously, the man in the parked
car was NOT Officer Richard Radetich; it was Paul Stine, who put his car in
PARK just before being shot in the head by the Zodiac killer.  He mentions
Stine to correct the gun typing from 9mm. to .38.

  2. The Zodiac killer's primary disguise is misdirection.

  3. The 32 is actually a map; the service station map is actually a code.

  4. Shelly Holmboe is both thematically and physically the center of The 13.

  5. The 32 also contains a symbol that stands for a murder victim.

  6. The Greek letter Omega appears only once in the Zodiac literature, in The
32.

  7. Gareth Penn has workers dig inside a picket fence, looking for Joan
Webster.

  8. JW is 1023, which is a picket fence number in binary math.

  9. The word OMEGA can be found inside JOAN WEBSTER in Morse code.

10. OMEGA will appear 8 times in a thousand victims, by chance.

11. The service station map doesn't contain BRS because it was never intended
to be a map.

12. The map DOESN'T say 'Magnetic North' anywhere.

13. A compass is a watch-like instrument that locates us in space.

14. A watch is a compass-like instrument that locates us in time.

15. If the Zodiac killer can draw a clock face on a map, he can draw a map on a
clock face.

16. The Timex watch at 12:22 in Riverside predicts the Donna Lass murder at
Lake Tahoe.

17. The Phillips 66 map is a found object.

18. Shelly Holmboe is murdered to demonstrate the elimination of a Wizard Pair.

19. 0 = MN means ELIMINATE WIZARD PAIRS!

20. Darlene Ferrin was PHILLIPS in '66.

21. Eliminating the Wizard Pair in PHILLIPS produces PI, LL, and IP.

22. The Berta Margoulies sculpture,Lost Lady, depicts Donna Lass AND Joan
Webster.

I found the interesting photo below of Berta Margoulies, also taken by Michael
O'Hare, in yet another biographical dictionary, A to Z of American Women in the
Visual Arts, Facts On File 2002, published after her death.



July 1970 Letters


The Zodiac killers July 26, 1970 letter included, at the very end, a reference
to radians that has tantalized and befuddled readers for over 40 years.

Many writers, including the always-loudmouthed-unless-he's-been-called-out Ed
Neil, have pontificated about what that reference might mean.

I'm about to TELL you what it means, in the most specific terms imaginable.

July 1970 Facts

The Zodiac killer sent two letters in July 1970, postmarked on July 24th . . .



. . . and July 26th.







The two July 1970 letters were withheld by the police and newspapers, just to
see what the Zodiac killer would do if he received no publicity.  Although it
probably didnt matter in any practical sense, this was theoretically a
mistake, since the information the Zodiac killer was sending the public was
intended to be sent and received sequentially.

There are a handful of aspects of these two letters I'll just comment on
quickly here, because I think the issues raised by the radian(s) PS. overshadow
everything else about them.  However, as always, I reserve the right to bring
them up at a later time (possibly much later!).

A, The July 24th and 26th letters are the 3rd of 4th consecutive letters that
mention the Zodiac killer's desire to see people wearing buttons.  As I've
mentioned, the fourth letter comes 89 days after the first, and the span in
days refers to an event in '89 (BUTON, which is The MIT Tower).

B, The mention of the Kathleen Johns kidnapping is probably remedial; he may
have felt it wasn't being sufficiently recognized as a Zodiac killer event. 
Note that he says he burned her car where he found them, which is not actually
true; this is similar to his mentioning Washington & Maple in The School Bus
Threat Letter, when the Stine murder actually took place at Washington &
Cherry.  He is drawing attention to his having moved a car (or having caused a
car to be moved, in the case of the taxi).  He didn't burn the car where he
found them; he burned it at the intersection of Highway 132 and Bird Road (i.
e., FIRE-Bird, or Phoenix).

C, I've said that he almost certainly had a list of possible victims whose
names (and other aspects of their identities) fulfilled his requirements, thus
it became a matter of placement and timing (and perhaps even artistic judgment)
as to whom he killed and whom he passed on.  But Kathleen Johns couldn't have
been the first on that list, even though he says her name starts off that list,
so he must mean that she is the first person who was selected as a public NON-
victim (because she's a NON-virgin).  Note that he includes her baby as a
possible victim, which tells us that babies, such as Shelly Holmboe, were
always potential victims.

D, If "Lost Lady" is a possible reference from the central LL of PI LL IP,
"Little List" is another possible reference.

E, Since I'm going to mention Robert Salem a little later on, and we've been
talking about names on the Zodiac's Little List, it should be added that most,
and perhaps all, of the Zodiac killer's victims can be connected to the word
EASTER in some way.  This is because the Zodiac killer uses Dante's Inferno as
a literary model for his project, and the trip through Hell begins on Good
Friday and ends on Easter Sunday; thus, Easter is the finished product of the
poem, and victims associated with EASTER are the Zodiac killer's finished
products (i. e., victims).

I pointed out that SHELLY Holmboe contains EASTER in redivided Morse code (as
does DAVID Faraday and Darlene FERRIN).  In the next chapter, I will
demonstrate that both Donna Lass and Joan Webster can be linked to EASTER, a
word which figures prominently in the disappearance of each woman.

Robert Salem may have been murdered on March 29, 1970, which was Easter Sunday
that year.  In any case, his name contains EASTER as an anagram:

RobErT SAlEm

RETSAE = EASTER (backward!!!)

Isn't that interesting?  If you start at the beginning of ROBERT SALEM, and
stop at each first instance of a letter from EASTER (in other words, you'd pick
the first, but not the second 'R', and BOTH 'E's), you not only get all six
letters, you get EASTER spelled backward (RETSAE)!

Note that the Scrabble leftovers, O-B-R-L-M, can spell

MORBL

 . . . which is a phonetic spelling of the French morbleau, which means,
"Scream (blue) bloody murder!"

If there was ever a crime scene that screamed bloody murder, it was Robert
Salem's.


Zodiac Ciphers

Im reviewing the ciphers here because the Zodiac killer, as of the previous
letter, has now sent the last one, and Im going to demonstrate what their
actual purpose was (for example, where radians comes in).  For the reader to
understand what The 32 meant, he has to understand why the Zodiac killer was
sending ciphers in the first place.

To begin with, the Zodiac killer didnt really send four ciphers.

He sent ONE cipher, and sent that cipher in 4 (The Cryptogram + The 340 + The
13 + The 32), or 6 (The VTH + The SFE + The SFC segments of The Cryptogram +
The 340 + The 13 + The 32), installments.

Get it46?

But why would he send a cipher anyway, if Im saying the letters themselves
(and his actions, for that matter, such as dialing a rotary telephone)
contained enciphered information?

The cipher was intended to highlight the Zodiac killers "secret operations",
thus, he used secret writing.  The "secret operations" included four secret
victims (Cheri Bates being a public victim, since he wrote letters and a poem
about her murder and did eventually take credit for it) and The Terminus
Event.

Lets do a quick review of the individual installments of that single cipher,
with an eye toward their cumulative meaning, and in the light of the
realization that it's really all ONE cipher.


Cryptogram Parody

The Zodiac killer creates a multiple-substitution cipher complex enough to fool
the cryptanalysts at the NSA, CIA, FBI, American Cryptogram Association, Mensa,
and Naval codebreakers. This assumes, of course, that they HADNT broken the
cipher and THEN changed some of the symbols, as Mike Rodelli has suggested as a
possibility.  For the record, I think either scenario is plausible, but Mike's
theory makes more sense of what they did.

Having constructed a sophisticated cipher, the Zodiac killer uses it to send an
EXTREMELY unsophisticated message:

I LIKE KILLING PEOPLE BECAUSE IT IS SO MUCH FUN. IT IS MORE FUN THAN KILLING
WILD GAME IN THE FORREST BECAUSE MAN IS THE MOST DANGERTUE ANIMAL OE ALL. TO
KILL SOMETHING GIVES ME THE MOST THRILLING EXPERENCE. IT IS EVEN BETTER THAN
GETTING YOUR ROCKS OFF WITH A GIRL. THE BEST PART OF IT IS THAE WHEN I DIE I
WILL BE REBORN IN PARADICE AND ALL THE I HAVE KILLED WILL BECOME MY SLAVES. I
WILE NOT GIVE YOU MY NAME BECAUSE YOU WILL TRY TO SLOI DOWN OR STOP MY
COLLECTING OF SLAVES FOR MY AFTERLIFE. EBEORIETEMETHHPITI

Its almost as if hes parodying the idea of conventional code-breaking!

All the sentences of the supposed solution are inane and essentially without
meaning in terms of understanding The Zodiac Project, with the exception of

THE BEST PART OF IT IS THAE WHEN I DIE I WILL BE REBORN IN PARADICE AND ALL THE
I HAVE KILLED WILL BECOME MY SLAVES.

. . . which means that when he dies, it will become clear that all his victims
were pre-selected because of their names and other superficial details having
to do with their identities.  Thus, they were "slaves" in the sense of having
no lives of their own.  They were slaves because they were doomed to be parts
of his puzzle.

But the Zodiac killer himself is a slave to his own pattern: since he had to
reveal himself somehow in every aspect of The Zodiac Project, he couldnt
construct a completely meaningless message. He had to put SOME sense of what he
was really doing in there, in Sentence #5 . . . but, apart from some meaningful
details (KILLING PEOPLE is 74-69 by alphabet numbers, and he murdered Darlene
Ferrin on 7-4-69, give or take a few minutes), the rest is clearly just a joke
on his part.

But why would the Zodiac killer PARODY the idea of a straightforward cipher
solution?

Because, in real life, cipher solutions are NEVER straightforward. Ciphers have
historically been used in wartime to transmit information between forces on the
same side of a conflict.

Ive mentioned the Battle of Midway as an example of a military action that was
decided, to a large extent, by cryptography. The United States codebreakers
were able to intercept transmissions in JN-25, which was one of the Japanese
naval codes, and thus learn of the pending attack on Midway.

By the way, Ive been criticized in some circles (Hell itself being constructed
of circles) for using more than one method of code-breaking.  Well, oddly
enough, the Japanese in WWII also used more than one codethere were several
Japanese naval codes, not to mention other specialized codes they used like the
Purple Code, which was for diplomatic instructions.  I'm not going to restrict
myself to one mode of translation (alphabet numbers, or Morse code) if the
source appears to be speaking in several languages.  The idea that an opponent
in war (and a serial killer is at war with society) would limit himself to a
single way of enciphering his messages is pretty na?ve, isn't it?

In any case, expecting a straightforward solution is a little like expecting to
decipher a Jap transmission which reads:

GREETINGS, THE AMERICAN PEOPLE! WE ARE THE JAPANESE MILITARY. WE PLAN TO ATTACK
MIDWAY ISLAND IN THE PACIFIC. WE WILL BE SENDING A FLEET OF SHIPS INTO THAT
AREA IN THE VERY NEAR FUTURE. OUR STRATEGIC GOAL IS TO TAKE THAT ISLAND AND USE
IT AS A BASE FOR FURTHER ATTACKS ON PEARL HARBOR, AND PERHAPS EVEN THE WEST
COAST OF THE UNITED STATES. SO BE FOREWARNED, AND HAVE A NICE DAY.

Isnt that cooperative of the Japs?  They tell you exactly what theyre doing,
they tell you how theyre going to do it, and its all written out in
longhand!  Ill bet Ed Neil has tears of gratitude rolling down his cheeks
right now!

Its stupid to expect a deciphered code to have a straightforward solution, and
BECAUSE its stupid, the sophisticated Zodiac killer makes fun of it.  In fact,
its striking how similar the tone of my parody Japanese transmission is to
what the Zodiac killer actually sent. I think thats because the intent was the
same, to poke fun at the expectations of a code-challenged public. The Zodiac
killers parody transmission (I LIKE KILLING PEOPLE . . .) is essentially an
announcement that his ciphers wont contain a straightforward solution.

So stop looking for one.

The police, newspapers, and general public read the solution to The
Cryptogram, their lips moving as they made their way over those six sentences,
and they shook their heads and said, This guys not very bright. Which is
ironic, if you think about it.  It's like receiving a gift inside a Chinese box
and, when you finally figure out how to open it, there's fecal matter inside!

The "gift" may seem crude, but the complexity of the box tells you the sender
isn't.

The Zodiac killer says, In this cipher is my identity. He doesnt say the
cipher contains his name, necessarily, and a codebreaker should not expect the
Zodiac killer to make things easy for him. The puzzle contained in The Zodiac
Project isnt simple; its not something that can be arrived at by connecting a
series of dots on paper.

The real information contained in The Cryptogram comes in the final 18 letters,
and consists of two statements about the ultimate end of The Zodiac Project:

Death/929, a BLAST from a BOMB located at BUTON, and planted in Room 929 (the
middle of an 18-story building) which destroys The MIT Tower by breaking it in
half.

And I, Seeger (x2), a sniper event similar to The Texas Tower massacre of
August 1, 1966, but from the roof of a building in downtown Boston, designated
as "Seeger times 2". Since Alan Seeger (who also had a rendezvous with death)
was born on 73rd Street, "Seeger times 2" means 73 x 2, or 146. The snipers
nest thus will be designated as "146". This is also why he says, in The Mt.
Diablo Letter,

You have untill
next Fall to dig it up.

Next Fall by acrostic is N-F.

N is the 14th letter, F is the 6th letter.

In other words, you have until "146", the event itself, to dig up the bodies.
You have that much time because, presumably, if you can find where the bodies
are buried, youve probably figured out The Zodiac Project (or enough of it to
stop The Terminus Event).

The Zodiac killers code in the cipher is actually a means of decipherment,
Morse code redivision. The only strategic purpose for those first 390 letters
of The Cryptogram is to give us the values for the subsequent symbols by
providing a context for them.

In other words, no context will be provided in the three later installments.

The other reason for The Cryptogram is to present pi (390/18, which is as close
as one can get, in 408 characters, to the breakdown between 3 and .1415926) as
a central motif.


340 Format

Speaking of pi, the Zodiac quotes The Mikado in The July 26, 1970 letter
because the Gilbert & Sullivan operetta premiered on March 14, 1885, March 14th
(3-14) being "pi-day".  Incidentally, as Gareth Penn pointed out somewhere, the
Little List number is technically a "patter-song", which means you have a PS in
the letter preceding the radian PS (note also that a Zodiac victim has the
initials P-S, and 'PS' will show up prominently in the next chapter as a
destination).

As the Zodiac killer will say in both July 1970 letters, hes got a "little
list" of potential victims, whose names and identities fit the parameters of
The Zodiac Project.  The actual victims will be chosen by their availability
within a flexible time frame, and by whether he can locate them where he wants
to. Since all but one of those victim-names were never actually used, and there
are symbols which werent in The Cryptogram, theres no way to tell what those
other names were. Its certainly possible that each line of The 340 contains a
prospective victim-name.

But we know that the two Vallejo drivers, David Faraday (DAVID F) and Darlene
Ferrin (D FERRIN), are on Line 10, and Joan Webster (WEBSTER, JOAN) is on Line
18.  I suspect that a victim named JOAN WEBSTER was the tenth target from the
very beginning, and that, even though Robert Salem and Donna Lass were still
future victims at the time of the mailing, the Zodiac killer only felt it
necessary to include one of those secret names in the list-cipher, perhaps to
make his "little list" as little as possible.

Incidentally, the article in The SF Examiner that presumably dooms Robert Salem
(The Lamplighter of Stevenson Street, Sunday, March 30, 1969) obviously
didnt appear until long after The Zodiac Project was under way, and Shelly
Holmboe wasnt even conceived yet when Cheri Bates was murdered. So its clear
that the Zodiac killer didnt target specific individuals from the very
beginning; he targeted names and nominal identities, and the actual victims
were the result of logistical and perhaps artistic choices he made along the
way.

We know that the Zodiac killer connects the two Vallejo drivers

DAVID F
        D FERRIN

. . . in an overlapping linking form in The 340 undertext.

But what is the link between them and Joan Webster?  Wouldn't it have made more
sense to link Donna Lass to Joan Webster, since those were the two buried
victims?

Well, he DOES link them in The 32. The link in The 340 is between David Faraday
(the first public victim killed by THE ZODIAC), who was killed on December
20, 1968, and Joan Webster (the last secret victim), who was killed on
November 28, 1981.

December 20, 1968 can be written 12-20-68.

The 340, which contains Joan Webster's name, is sent on November 8, 1969.

Joan Webster is abducted and murdered on November 28, 1981.

That's 12 years and 20 days after the cipher is mailed.

12-20

But where's the 68?

68 is the difference between the first two ciphers.

  408
 -340
    68

The reader will also note that the 97th character (Line 6, Character 12) has
been blacked out and replaced by a backward K.




The previous mailing to The Pen Card (November 8, 1969) was The School Bus
Threat Letter (October 13, 1969). The Zodiac killer had 26 days to construct
his new cipher (The 340), and yet, when its received, its found to contain a
mistake in the 97th character. What happened? None of the other ciphers is
marred by such a mistake, and the Zodiac killer had close to a month to get
this one ready for the mailing.

Gareth Penn says the Zodiac killer makes this apparent mistake to highlight
character #97 of The 340, and thats part of the truth. However, he doesnt
disturb the cipher grid lines anywhere else, thus, the mistake seems a bit
blatant for such a small return on it.

A more logical reason for the mistake is that the police changed the cipher
symbols in The Cryptogram in such a way that it defeated the Zodiac killers
purpose. Remember, I say the symbols retain their original meaning in all four
ciphers, such that the four ciphers are actually ONE cipher. So if a particular
symbol is misidentified, regardless of the reasons for it, it may thwart his
intent.

The Zodiac killer substitutes backward-K for what appears to be a blacked-out
square. I suspect the original symbol WAS a blacked-out square. There are no
blacked-out squares in The Cryptogram cipher text; the blacked-out squares that
seem to be there were actually created by the police when they changed the
cipher symbols.

Why wouldnt the Zodiac killer just go ahead and use another symbol?

Because there are two solutions to each cipher. Theres the real solution,
whatever that is, and then theres the proposed solution of Gareth Penn,
which is offered for publicity reasons, to present a possible solution or
method of decipherment. Gareth has recently described his solution to The 340
as serviceable (he has since deleted the statement from his Blogspot blog,
GZ4216); he doesnt tell us WHAT his reading may be servicing (such as, for
example, misdirection from the real solution).

That second solution has to be at least plausible. The reader will note that in
many cases, Gareth Penn analyzes a cipher based on the TYPE of symbol that is
presented (non-alphabetic, geometric, etc.). Thus, a symbol that is also a
geometric shape (a blacked-out square) might be more important than a letter,
and the police artist who made the changes concentrated on the geometric shapes
(with the exception of the Z leading off line 3 of The SF Chronicle third of
The Cryptogramthat was changed, clumsily, to a HALF-blacked-out square). In
any case, he can live with NO deciphering of a particular symbol, but NOT with
an incorrect deciphering. Note that this is consistent with his other
corrections, such as that the man in the PARKed car (Paul Stine) was shot with
a .38 (NOT a 9mm).

At the end of The 340, the Zodiac killer has sent all but 45 symbols of his
cipher.

The first 44 lines of the ONE cipher are all 17 characters long, and there are
24 (The Cryptogram) + 20 (The 340) lines in the cipher. Thus, the first two
installments are

44 x 17 = 748

. . . characters long.

But why 748?

In the special edition DVD of David Finchers Zodiac, Russell Butterbach of the
Solano County Sheriffs office, a patrolman in 1968 when the Lake Herman Road
murders took place, mentions hearing about those murders over the police radio
as he was leaving the Hells Angels pad on Warren Street. He says that when he
got back to the patrol car, he heard on the police radio that there was a
double 187 on Lake Herman Road.

What is a 187?

All police agencies in California use a system of numbering crimes to make each
incident identifiable in the overall scheme of things.

By the way, isnt that a bizarre concept? Using numbers to designate crimes?
One wonders if thats where the Zodiac killer got the idea of using numbers in
the first place!

At any rate, the number 187 in the California Penal Code (another code!) refers
to the crime of, you guessed it, murder. A double 187 was, therefore, a
double homicide.

By the time the Zodiac killer had sent both The Cryptogram and The 340, hed
sent 748 cipher characters to the newspapers.

748 = 187 x 4

Why?

Well, we know what 187 means, so whats the x 4?

He multiplies 187 by four for the same reason the police radio says double
187, to indicate how many murders hes talking about.

A cipher is a form of secret writing.

The Zodiac killer sends his first two ciphers in the form 44 x 17, or 187
(murder) times 4.

Hes saying, in SECRET writing, that there will be FOUR secret murders.

The four secret murders? In chronological order:

1. Shelly Holmboe 2. Robert Salem 3. Donna Lass 4. Joan Webster

Among other things, this tells us that whoever planned the Zodiac murders was
familiar with the California Penal Code. The designation 187 as a synonym for
murder is used nowadays by rap artists such as Snoop Dogg, but in 1966 the vast
majority of Californians wouldnt have been familiar with it. Hugh Penn, who
worked for the California Highway Patrol and the state attorney general's
office, knew the numbering system like the back of his hand.

Meanwhile, the Zodiac killer had been using lines consisting of 17 characters
exclusively.

Suddenly, in April 1970, he sends us a line of 13 characters. Why?


13 Wizard

The 13-Character Cipher contained, as its centerpiece, the initials of Shelly
Holmboe, when the same symbol-values are applied as were used in The Cryptogram
(S-H).

W E E D (8-ball) S (8-ball) H (8-ball) ? E W H

The common thread of the last three ciphers is that they all contain victim-
names, or contain characters that stand for victims

a, a name in redivided Morse code in The 340 (WEBSTER, JOAN);

b, a pair of initials, flanked by 8-balls, in The 13-Character Cipher (S-H),
and

c, a name containing the name of the symbol it stands for in The 32 Character
Cipher (JOAN WEBSTER = OMEGA).

The 8-balls flanking Shelly Holmboe's initials are intended to suggest that she
was always doomed, because EASTER was contained inside her name, and because
her initials were S-H (about which, more in a moment). But why use 8-balls
instead of some other symbol?

The number 8 is two to the 3rd power, or 23. It's a form of the number 23, and
we know that Shelly Holmboe was 23 months old when she was killed. But if The
Zodiac Project is based on the theme of 2 x 23, why use THREE versions of 23?

It's partly because the S-H in the center of the cipher takes the form of a
name on a headstone, and THREE times 23 is '69, which is the year of Shelly
Holmboe's death.

But theres another, more convincing reason to use 8-balls.

 1    2     3     4     5     6     7      8     9     10     11     12     13
  A    B    C     D     E    F     G     H     I       J      K       L      M
 Z    Y     X    W     V    U     T     S     R     Q      P       O      N

There are 13 Wizard Pairs in the alphabet (13 sets of matching letters) . . .
of which HS (or SH), Shelly Holmboes initials, are the 8th pair!

8     B     A     L      L
       2   + 1 + 12 + 12 = 27

27 is always the total of alphabet numbers for Wizard Pairs. A (1) + Z (26) =
27, B (2) + Y (25) = 27, and so forth.

Shelly Holmboe was behind the 8-ball because SH is the 8th set of Wizard
Pairs in the alphabet, and each pair adds up to 27 (B-A-L-L).

Thats also why the cipher itself contains 13 charactersthere are 13 Wizard
Pairs.


32 Format

As I said in the last chapter, The 32 isnt a cipher in the sense of containing
a statement; its a map, in the sense of placing victims on the landscape. In
like manner, the Phillips 66 service station map wasnt really a map, at least
in the context of The Zodiac Project; it was a code, in the sense of
presenting information that had been encrypted(though the Phillips 66 map was a
found object, not something the Zodiac killer himself created).

The final three are 13, 17, and 15 characters respectively, and lines 45 and 46
(13 and 17 characters, respectively) each contain two symbols which stand for
murder victims.

The individuals depicted in lines 45 and 46 arent living people. Theyre
symbols of the dead victims, buried in the case of Donna Lass and Joan Webster,
placed on or near The Mt. Diablo Meridian in the case of Shelly Holmboe, and
placed as a radian locator in the case of Robert Salem. So you have this
configuration in the ONE cipher:

Lines 1-44: 748 characters, which is 187 (murder) x 4

line 45 (13 characters): 2 murdered victims

line 46 (17 characters): 2 buried victims

line 47 (15 characters): ?

Thus, The 13-Character Cipher is Line 45 of the ONE cipher.

Salem Lass

I mentioned, in the previous chapter, that the Omega sign in The 32 stands for
Joan Webster, simply because JOAN WEBSTER contains OMEGA in redivided Morse
code.

Theres another symbol in The 32 that stands for the other burial victim--Donna
Lass.



 On page 130 of Times 17, Gareth Penn points out that symbol #10 of The 13 and
symbol #8 of The 32 are both upside-down lower case rs, and only appear in
those two ciphers.



He calls this symbol Radian. That it appears in BOTH The 13 and The 32
doesnt make sense. If Omega stands for Joan Webster and appears only once,
Radian, which presumably stands for Donna Lass, should only appear once as
well, right?

Wrong. As I pointed out in Chapter M. Robert Salem, there is a SECOND radian
branching off the south leg of the Mt. Diablo radian, apexed at BM54, the Donna
Lass burial site, which connects BM54 to the Robert Salem murder site on
Stevenson.




In other words, there are TWO radians, and thus, the upside-down r that
Gareth Penn calls Radian can actually stand for two DIFFERENT victims: Robert
Salem and Donna Lass.

Since we know that Joan Webster stands for Omega in The 32, its probably safe
to assume that the Radian symbol in The 32 stands for Donna Lass, the other
buried victim.



By a process of elimination, this would lead us to believe that the Radian
symbol in The 13, character #10, stands for Robert Salem, and since he was the
next victim chronologically after Shelly Holmboe, who is the centerpiece of The
13, that would also seem to make sense.



Lets quickly review what we know about The 13 and The 32, the two of which
Gareth Penn calls The Radian Ciphers:

line 45 (The 13): 2 murdered victimShelly Holmboe and Robert Salem

line 46 (Line 1 of The 32): 2 buried victimDonna Lass and Joan Webster

Note that the victims are placed, as symbols, in chronological order.

I said, in the previous chapter, that The 32 is actually a map, not really a
code.

This is also essentially true of The 13. The two ciphers are not statements in
any conventional sense. They perform the same function that a map performsthey
locate things on the landscape. In this case, they locate Zodiac victims.

1. Shelly Holmboe is the centerpiece of The 13, because she essentially stands
for the apex of the larger radian, The Mt. Diablo Radian. Thats why her body
is placed on, or in proximity to, The Mt. Diablo Meridian. Her death
consecrates VABM 3849 in the same sense that a sacrificed animal consecrated
the Roman Terminus markers.

2. Robert Salem, the first Radian victim, is the 10th character of The 13,
comes immediately following the S-H/8-ball sequence, and is followed by THREE
characters.



3. Donna Lass, the second Radian victim, is the 8th character of The 32, and
is thus immediately preceded by SEVEN characters.



4. Joan Webster, represented by Omega, is the 13th character of The 32; she is
preceded by TWELVE, and followed by FOUR characters.

Remember, I said that the placement of Omega on a map of Greater Boston will
precisely locate the (original) burial position of Joan Webster.

Thats something Ill talk about when we get to Boston.

For now, Ill limit myself to discussing the two Radian victims.


Maps

If superimposing The 32 on a map of Greater Boston will give us Joan Websters
(original) burial position, its reasonable to assume that I intend to
superimpose The 13 AND The 32 on maps of the SF Bay Area to locate Robert
Salems murder site and Donna Lasss burial position.

Of course, we already know where Robert Salem died (the 700 block of Stevenson
Street) and Ive already indicated Donna Lasss burial position (BM54 at 739
Clay Street in SF Chinatown). In that sense, were working backward from what
we know.

So the next question the reader probably has iswhich map are we going to use?

The Zodiac killer TELLS us which map to use, and he does it right there in the
letter. On the last page of The Mikado Letter, after he tells us he has a
Little List of victims, the Zodiac killer draws his largest crosshairs symbol,
taking up almost the entire page.

Why?

Remember, I said that the Phillips 66 service station map was inadequate to use
to draw a radian with, or anything else for that matter. First, because it
doesnt contain Blue Rock Springs, but also because its not magnetic, and
there are no benchmarks (except for VABM 3849).



The crosshairs symbol is often seen spray-painted on sidewalks at construction
sites. The benchmarks on USGS maps are used to locate USGS benchmark discs,
which indicate specific elevations.  The construction crew can then set their
altimeters and exactly locate where they are in space (usually in relation to
sea level).

These maps come in various sizes. The standard size is the quadrangle, 7.5
square, of use in construction because it locates these USGS benchmarks within,
say, a city grid. Benchmark 54 at 739 Clay Street, and the Robert Salem murder
site on Stevenson Street, in addition to the Paul Stine murder site at
Washington & Cherry, are all on a USGS quadrangle (7.5 by 7.5, which would be
a single square on a chessboard whose 64 squares would be 1?) called San
Francisco North, which contains most of the top part of the city peninsula.
Mt. Diablo, which is to say, VABM 3849, is found on another quadrangle called
Clayton, California.

 The crosshairs sign on page 2 of The Mikado Letter includes what people have
interpreted as a victim count, 13.  I think the number in fact refers to The 13
Character Cipher, and means that that map ("San Francisco North") is to be used
in conjunction with The 13.



Since the crosshairs sign on page 5 is as big as he can make it (almost filling
a whole page), its reasonable to assume the Zodiac means this to indicate the
largest USGS map possible.





That would be USGS 1? x 2? maps.

Oddly enough, or perhaps not surprisingly, VABM 3849 is not on the same 1? x 2?
map as the three sites in San Francisco. San Francisco is found on a 1? x 2?
map called, of all things, San Francisco. VABM 3849 is found on a 1? x 2? map
called San Jose. This is the largest area available on a USGS map that still
has topographic features (such as VABM 3849); these maps are not detailed
enough to show benchmarks within the city grid.

As the reader can see below, I have gone to the trouble of welding the San
Francisco and San Jose maps together along the edge nearest VABM 3849 (which is
near the corner of 122?W/38?N), so that the resultant map includes both VABM
3849 AND the three sites in San Francisco.  Its true that you can always go
larger in scale, but when you do that, you lose the necessary detail to
calculate exactly where your reference points are.



Heres the interesting thing: when you weld the San Francisco and San
Jose maps together as I have, and then draw a line from VABM3849 (Mt. Diablo)
to BM54 (739 Clay Street) . . . that line is 7 inches long. And I mean to say,
its EXACTLY 7 inches long.

Now, granted, Im not an artist like Mike Butterfield, and my weld probably
wouldnt get past a municipal building inspector in Pittsburgh. But it cant be
off by more than a couple of hairs. Plus, since BM54 isnt actually featured on
the larger map, I had to approximate its location. But I think Im pretty
close. And the line connecting the two points is EXACTLY 7 inches long.

So 7 is the #inches along THAT radian.

Now lets zoom in on San Francisco North. BM54 is a featured point here, but
I did have to approximate the location of Robert Salems apartment/studio at
754 Stevenson.



Again, I cant be off by more than a few hairs, and the line connecting the two
is 3 ? inches long. The reader will IMMEDIATELY note, if hes been paying
attention all this time, that 3 ? is yet another way of saying 3.14, so theres
another pi in your face.

In any case, the line connecting the two points is 3 ? inches, so 3 is the
#inches along THAT radian.

73

7-3.

Where have we seen that sequence before?



Oh, thats right. 7 is the number of characters preceding Donna Lasss position
in The 32.



And 3 is the number of characters following Robert Salems position in The 13.

73.  7-3 is the sequence, in inches, from VABM 3849 to BM54, and then from BM54
to 754 Stevenson Street.

And there are 73s everywhere you look.

73 is the street Alan Seeger was born on (73rd Street).

73 is the number of alphabet letters in The 13, once you eliminate the Wizard
Pair (S-H).

W E E D (8-ball) S (8-ball) H (8-ball) ? E W H

W     E   E    D   E    W     H
23 + 5 + 5 + 4 + 5 + 23 + 8 = 73

73 is the number of alphabet letters on the top line of The 32, following the
radian symbol.

                                                 W    H    D   A(Omega)  N   
G    O    A
                                                 23 + 8 + 4 + 1        +     14
+ 7 + 15 + 1 = 73

The Mt. Diablo Letter, which contains the above symbol sequence, is mailed on
June 26, 1970. Donna Lass disappeared on September 6, 1970 . . . that's a span
of 73 days.

Shelly Holmboe is murdered on October 19th--73 days before the end of the year.

Perhaps most significantly, 73 is what you get when you un-shift

& #

on a typewriter keyboard--7-3.

In fact, the Zodiac killer even includes an up arrow to emphasize the shift.

This isn't misdirection; this is an example of Hiding In Plain Sight.

Mt. Diablo Code

Lets take a second look at his statement, in the light of these revelations.

PS. The Mt. Diablo code concerns
radians &# inches along the radians.

The Mt. Diablo code. . . which is actually BOTH The 13 and The 32.

Its The 13 because Shelly Holmboe, who was murdered in proximity to The Mt.
Diablo Meridian, is the centerpiece of it.

Its The 32 because Donna Lasss burial spot (BM54 at 739 Clay Street) is along
the south leg of a radian apexed on Mt. Diablo.

  . . . concerns radians . . . radianS, PLURAL, which is what we have: a radian
apexed on Mt. Diablo, and a sub-radian formed by the south leg of that radian
and a line connecting BM54 to the Robert Salem murder site.

. . . &#inches . . . which must mean, on a map.

It cant mean inches in actual space, since the Mt. Diablo radian covers
something like 700 miles, which we would then have to multiply by 5,280 to get
the number of feet, and then by 12 to get the number of inches, and getting a
precise number might prove difficult.

. . . along the radians . . . again, radianS, PLURAL, and again were dealing
with a double event:

a, inches along The Mt. Diablo Radian (7), and

b, inches along the BM54-754 Stevenson Sub-Radian (3).

I want to take Mike Butterfield as seriously as possible here because this is
the whole crux of his argument, or his opposition to MY argument.

Heres the thing: if you take away the Zodiac killers mention of radians
(twice), Mike Butterfield has a much stronger case, because Gareth Penn and
myself are then assuming that radians WERE intended.  But once the Zodiac
killer actually mentions radians, the need for those radians to be absolutely
accurately drawn on an undulating landscape, and over 700 miles, becomes less
critical, because were no longer questioning how accurate he needs to be.

Were now asking about his INTENT. Ill give Mike and Ed Neil a pass on their
skepticism, now that Ive demonstrated that there are, in fact, radianS
(PLURAL) with inches along them that can be measured (7 and 3).

I still think what Jake Wark said ten years ago, that dismissing the notion of
a single radian when the Zodiac killer mentions the term is counterintuitive. I
think, particularly now that Ive added my own research to the argument, that
the Zodiac killers mention of the term within the context of everything else
becomes a little too much of a coincidence.

Diablo Implications

What do we know now that we didnt know before?

a, The Zodiac killer is very smart.  Arthur Leigh Allen would probably not be
able to pull all this off.  Michael O'Hare, Berta Margoulies, Gareth and Hugh
Penn?  Now you're talkin'!

b, How does Gareth Penn know, in 1987 when he wrote Times 17, that the inverted
lower-case 'r' symbol stands for 'Radian'?  Ray Grant knows it because Gareth
told him, but how does Gareth know it?  And is it reasonable to assume that, if
Gareth called The 13 and The 32 "The Radian Ciphers" and called the upside-down
'r' the Radian symbol, that he somehow knew what the significance of those
symbols were . . . but for some reason didn't tell us?

I can pretty much promise the reader that Gareth never expected to be in this
situation, where he'd have to explain the inexplicable things he was doing two
decades ago.  He expected The Terminus Event to take place in 1989, and he'd
either be dead or . . . doing something else.

Gareth has now erased his blog on GZ4216.  When I asked him if it was just a
coincidence that his phone number in 1987 was

(415) 499-0670

 . . . he said it was Diane Merrill's phone number when he moved in with her in
1982.

Maybe it was, but the last five digits of that number are the date Donna Lass
disappeared.
 
c, Shelly Holmboe, Robert Salem, Donna Lass, and Joan Webster are very probably
Zodiac victimseither that, or he intended others to take their places and I
missed them, somehow.

I doubt it.

July 1970 Review

1. By the way, I don't mention this because I couldn't find anyplace to put it,
but BOMB is 32 by alphabet numbers.  32 is 25, which is a form of 25, and we're
talking about the burial locations of two 25-year-olds (Donna Lass and Joan
Webster).  BOMB in Morse/binary is 4600, and the two buried victims are both
represented on Line 46 of the cipher.

  2. The Zodiac killer DIDN'T burn Kathleen Johns's car where he found them.

  3. Kathleen Johns survived because she WASN'T on the list.

  4. Little List is another LL, the central letters of PI LL IP.

  5. ROBERT SALEM contains EASTER backward, in anagram form.

  6. The Zodiac killer sent ONE cipher in 4 or 6 installments.

  7. The cipher was intended to highlight his SECRET operations.

  8. The Cryptogram solution is actually a parody of straightforward cipher
solutions.

  9. Joan Webster is murdered 12 years and 20 days after The 340 mailing--12-
20.

10. The crossed-out symbol (#97) in The 340 corrects what the police changed.

11. The first two cipher installments are 748 characters.

12. 748 = 187 (murder) times 4 (victims--Holmboe, Salem, Lass, and Webster).

13. The Zodiac killer was familiar with the California Penal Code.

14. The Zodiac killer flanks Shelly Holmboe's initials with 8-balls.

15. S-H, her initials, are the 8th Wizard-Pair in the alphabet.

16. Line 45 (The 13) contains the positions of Shelly Holmboe and Robert Salem.

17. Line 46 (Line 1 of The 32) contains the positions of Donna Lass and Joan
Webster.

18. The Radian symbol, upside-down lower-case 'r', denotes Robert Salem and
Donna Lass.

19. Robert Salem's Radian symbol is followed by 3 characters in The 13.

20. Donna Lass's Radian symbol is preceded by 7 characters in The 32.

21. The crosshairs sign on page 2 of The Mikado Letter refers to The 13.

22. The crosshairs sign on page 5 of The Mikado Letter refers to The 32.

23. The large crosshairs sign on page 5 indicates a USGS 1? by 2? map.

24. The smaller crosshairs sign on page 2 indicates a quadrangle, "SF North".

25. BM54 is exactly 7 inches along the radian (south leg) from VABM 3849.

26. 754 Stevenson Street is 3 1/4 inches along the (sub-) radian from BM54.

27. The sequence of inches along the radians is 7-3.

28. The sequence of inches matches what is predicted in The 32 and The 13.

29. 73 is the alphabet number total of The 13 (minus S-H).

30. 73 days is the span from June 26, 1970 to September 6, 1970.

31. 73 days were left in 1969 when Shelly Holmboe was murdered.

32. &# are the shift positions on a typewriter of 7-3.

33. The Mt. Diablo code concerns radians &#inches along the radians.

34. "Radians" are mentioned in the Zodiac's letter.

35. Radians (&#inches) are demonstrable on maps of Zodiac murder sites.

36. The Mt. Diablo Radian Myth isn't a myth after all; it's a fact.

37. The Zodiac killer is very smart.

38. Gareth Penn is very suspicious.

39. Shelly Holmboe, Robert Salem, Donna Lass, and Joan Webster were Zodiac
victims.


I'm guessing that no one has attempted this exercise before because no one
other than myself recognized the significance of BM54.



Donna Lass


Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** 1974 ******

If The Zodiac Project is about identity, and the 1974 mailings are his final
public statements (at least, to the GENERAL public), and those statements
arent actually signed by the Zodiac (at least not using his usual pen-name)
but instead by a succession of pseudonyms:

yours truley

a friend

a citizen

the red phantom

. . . what are we to make of them?

If hes so intent on telling us who he is, in his every act as the Zodiac, why
would he suddenly begin intentionally presenting himself as someone else?

Granted, his ruse was half-hearted. Plus theres a scoreboard on the bottom
of The Exorcist Letter, and the envelope includes his real signature phrase,
Please Rush To Editor, so we knew who it REALLY was all along.

Still . . . why even attempt to suggest that someone else is writing to us?

Are the 1974 letters some sort of self-parody?

It seems so strange for him to leave the stage for three years, and then
return, for six months, speaking in a (nominally) new voice.

It seems somehow self-defeating, after all the trouble hes gone to.

Plus, all four of the letters are about current events, or at least things that
are going on in the popular culture.

None of them is about the Zodiac murders, though they are about death, and
revolutionary violence, and serial murderers . . . and finally a very odd
letter at the end about a columnist.

I suspect that the 1974 Zodiac letters, though not quite self-parody, were
intended as a broad hintas broad as the Z drawn by their postmark
locationsthat the Zodiac is someone else in real life.



Someone, to use his own phrase, entirle different.

Gaps Between Events

There is a gap of almost three years between The Lake Tahoe Card of March 22,
1971 and The Exorcist Card of January 29, 1974.

For the last 37 years, people have believed there must have been some
logistical reason for the gaps between Zodiac events.

Did the Zodiac leave the area and then come back? If youve gotten this far in
the book, you know the Zodiac never did ANYTHING for conventional reasons.

Remember, I said that the Lake Herman Road murders (December 20, 1968), occur
782 DAYS after the Cheri Bates murder (October 30, 1966).

782 = 2 x 23 (the Terminus) x 17

Times 17 is the title of Gareth Penns book.

Lets assume that the gaps between events arent there because of any
logistical obstacles the Zodiac faced, but because he was spelling something
out with them.

The Zodiac Project begins in 1966.

It continues more or less unabated until 1971.

Then theres a three-year gap to 1974.

And the project is scheduled to end in 1989.


1966 1971 1974 1989


So lets look at some possible combinations of those gaps:


1966-1971 1971-1989


5 years, followed by 18 years

5th letter E 18th letter R


1966-1974 1974-1989


8 years, followed by 15 years

8th letter H 15th letter O


Note that this is the same as the gun numbers sequence already alluded to.

The Zodiac used a 22, 9, 45, and 38.

The sequence in the backward alphabet was E, R, H, and O.

In other words, letters 5 +18 (the two Vallejo murder events), then 8 +15,
(Lake Berryessa and Presidio Heights) with each pair adding up to 23.

Note, finally, that the Zodiac makes sure he uses only the four canonical
Zodiac events to spell this sequence out!

This is yet another example of an unexplained Zodiac event (or in this case, a
gap in events) at which the so-called researchers on the case throw up their
hands.

What other possible explanation could there be?

Was the Zodiac in jail? If so, apparently they didnt bother to book him and
compare his fingerprints with those of the most notorious serial killer of the
20th century. Of course, they DID compare Arthur Leigh Allen's fingerprints
with the Zodiac's, and he's still considered a suspect!

Was he in a mental institution? If so, he must have signed himself in, right?
Otherwise, hed have to have been arrested and processed, which is something
that happens when idiosyncrasy crosses over into eccentricity, and then finally
crosses the line into public nuisance.

Maybe he was just . . . away?

If these half-assed excuses for real research interest the reader, hes welcome
to visit all the other Zodiac websites.

If not, I think its fair to ASSUME that a killer so intent on getting his
message out that he threatens kill rampages if his notes dont show up on the
front page, and makes phone calls to police in the aftermath of his murders,
would probably NOT let three years go by without a peep out of him . . . and
then write pseudonymously.

Unless, of course, he did that to send ANOTHER message.


Found Poems

As has been noted by others, all the 1974 mailings are pseudonymous.

That in itself is significant.

PSeudonymous

After all, Paul Stine is a PS, and the Zodiac uses postscripts in several
letters. But all the 1974 mailings also use material found in the popular
culture in much the same manner that artists use such material.

As John Lennon said of Being For The Benefit Of Mr. Kite, he did very little
to change the lyric.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Being_for_the_Benefit_of_Mr._Kite!

Although I knew John Lennon had taken the lyrics from a Victorian poster, since
he mentioned it in his Rolling Stone interview back in 1970, I had always
assumed John had changed 'somersaults' to 'somersets', but the latter is
actually on the poster.

In any case, I talked about Found Objects earlier as often being the basis for
Pop Art. In literature, these references are sometimes called 'Found Poems'.

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Found_poetry

http://www.foundpoetryreview.com/fall-2011

In the four 1974 mailings, the Zodiac uses


1, the Exorcist movie,

2, the Symbionese Liberation Army,

3, the Badlands movie, and

4, the Count Marco column


. . . as popular culture reference points to things hes doing.

If you look carefully at that list, youll notice, to cite a device used on
standard intelligence tests, that one of the items is different from the other
three.

When we get to that item, well discuss WHY its different.

In the meantime, lets start chronologically with The Exorcist Letter.


Titwillo

Ive already discussed several aspects of The Exorcist Letter, which was mailed
by the Zodiac killer on January 29, 1974.



1, the phrase Me  37 means I am pi.

2, The Zodiac references a character who can move her head 180?, because 180?
is a metaphor for a secret identity, which serial killers, as well as comic
book superheroes, have.

3, the quotation from The Mikado is another reference to pi, because the
premier of the Gilbert & Sullivan musical was on March 14th (3-14), 1885.


Now, note the use of the word TITWILLO

  T    I      T     W     I      L      L      O
20 + 9 + 20 + 23 + 9 + 12 + 12 + 15 = 120 (alphabet numbers)

There are 3 TITWILLOs.

3 x 120 is 360 . . . so hes formed a circle.

Note, however, that if the final W is left on TITWILLO, it adds up to 143.

  T    I      T     W     I      L      L      O       W
20 + 9 + 20 + 23 + 9 + 12 + 12 + 15  +  23 = 143 (alphabet numbers)

143, or 1-43, is yet another way of saying January, 1943, our suspects MOB.

So the use of, and even the misspelling of, the word TITWILLO evokes both
circles and 1-43.

Linda Blair

The star of The Exorcistthe demon from Hellis Linda Blair.

Linda Blair

L        B
12      2

LB is 122.

Again, remember that nearly every result in The Zodiac Project has to be
arrived at in at least two ways, to obey the rule of symmetry.

Linda Blair is 1-22 by acrostic.

And the actress Linda Blair was also born on January 22nd (as was Michael
O'Hare).


9745/5479

Incidentally, I mention in an earlier edition of this book that Linda Blair was
born on January 22, 1959, and thus had just turned 15 a week prior to the
mailing of The Exorcist Letter.

When a person turns fifteen, 75% of the time hes 5,479 days old (depending on
how many leap year days hes accumulated).

Remember my mentioning Michael OHares age in days at Lake Berryessa?

He was exactly 9,745 days old on the day of the Lake Berryessa attack.

So Linda Blair, besides being the star of a movie the Zodiac reviews, at age 15
is 5,479 days old and a mirror-image for Michael OHare at 9,745 days old (at
Lake Berryessa).

Do we notice any other similarities here?

For instance, that the Zodiac wore a ceremonial costume at Lake Berryessa, and
the action central to the movie is a ceremony known in the Catholic Church as
an exorcism?

Again, remember, the Zodiac conspirators could not have known, in 1966, that a
movie about exorcism would come out in 1973. It's simply an example of artists,
and I use the term figuratively, using what material is at hand in the popular
culture.

This is in stark contrast with what art was during Dante's time, the (very
early) Renaissance. During the Renaissance, art was intended to present the
ideal, and to be self-contained.

Modern art, as practiced by The New York Group (which included Berta
Margoulies), aimed to incorporate contemporary culture (as Warhol and
Lichtenstein's Pop Art did, for example), and to frame the intersection between
the ideal and reality (in some cases, contrasting the two).

More in line with Dante, The Inferno is a kind of subterranean journalism, with
the poet a roving (actually revolving) reporter interviewing the various
denizens of Hell.

And The Exorcist contains, at its center, a dialogue between a speaking spirit
from Hell and the various characters confronting her.

The Zodiac does exactly the same thing the Linda Blair character does.

He brings Hell to Earth.

SLA

The SLA Letter was mailed February 14, 1974, during the national news coverage
of The Symbionese Liberation Army, who had kidnapped Patty Hearst and committed
various other crimes including bank robberies.



Believe it or not, The SLA Letter brings us all the way back to Dantes
Inferno.

A good source for the roots of Old Norse words is The OED.

The Oxford English Dictionary is archeological.

For each entry in the dictionary, it cites the first recorded use of the word.

With SLA, which the Zodiac correctly identifies as a form of the word slay
(which means kill--you'd think he'd be an expert on forms of that word), the
Zodiac has hit on a word form that originated in the year 1300.

This is the section of the entry under the 'sla' variant of 'slay' in The
Online OED:

?. north.ME sla, slo.
a1300 in Old Eng. Misc. 200/5 Loke ?at tu ne sla na man.
c1325 in G. L. Brook Harley Lyrics (1968) 34 Er ?ou me slo.
c1400 tr. Secreta Secret., Gov. Lordsh. 61 Suffre ?at he sla.
a1500 (1460) Towneley Plays (1994) I. ii. 22, I will that no man other slo.

As you can see, the earliest recorded use of the variant occurred in 1300.

1300, of course, is also the year of Dants Inferno.

It begins on Holy Thursday, April 7, 1300the last year of the 13th centuryand
ends on Easter Sunday, April 10, 1300.

Ask yourself this question: why would the Zodiac cite THAT particular spelling
of slay? Obviously, hes using whats going on in the news at the time to
make the reference, but what kind of person would look at the letters S-L-A and
then make that sort of connection?

Presumably, it would be someone who has access to a copy of The OED.

A scholar, perhaps?

A career academic?

Heres a line from the Wikipedia entry for Inferno (Dante):

The poem begins on the day before Good Friday in the year 1300.

Heres a segment of the Wikipedia entry for Old Norse:

Old Norse is a North Germanic language that was spoken by inhabitants of
Scandinavia and inhabitants of their overseas settlements during the Viking
Age, until about 1300.

Hmmm!

Now, heres a segment of the Wikipedia entry for Gareth Penn:

Penn graduated from the University of California, Berkeley in 1962 with a
Bachelor of Arts degree (BA) in Germanic languages and again in 1965 with an
Master of Arts (MA) in Medieval Germanic languages. He received a Master of
Library Science (MLS) from U.C. Berkeley in 1971.[2]

Hmmm!

Maybe I'm naive, but it does seem to me that someone with two degrees in
Germanic languages and one in Library Science would be familiar with Old Norse
and The OED.

As Ive mentioned elsewhere, I paid a book agent specializing in reference
books $150 in 1978 for a copy of the 2nd Edition of Webstes International
Dictionary (1934). I was one of the hordes of English majors dissatisfied with
editor Philip Goves demonic Webstes Third International Dictionary (1961),
which is a DEscriptive dictionary (the 2nd Edition is PREscriptive). I own a
physical copy of every edition of Webstes International Dictionary, plus
every edition of The Columbia Encyclopedia, plus The Oxford English Dictionary
(1989), plus numerous other philological works such as John Simon's Paradigms
Lost and Eric Partridge's Origins. So ordinarily, I dont go in for online
dictionaries. The section I've cited can be found in my own physical copy of
The OED as well as The Online OED.

The advantage of The Online OED is that people can look up the entry at their
computers. Id tell Zodiac message board posters to look up the entry
themselves, but that would cost them at least $29.95 for a months subscription
to The Online OED. I just hope the person looking up the entry isnt Ed Neil,
because Ed has this tendency to look up terms such as terracina, spend a
couple minutes finding ONE example of that term on Wikipedia, see that its
different from what Ray Grant says it is, and then jump up, tipping his chair
over, and start bellowing about the gem that hes found that proves Ray Grant
doesnt know what hes talking about.

Youre going to have to dig deeper, Ed. If you want to sit in on my class, even
with the Halloween mask on, fine, but youre going to have to do your homework.

And I mean ALL of it.

Badlands 1

The Badlands Card was mailed May 8, 1974:

Sirs -- I would like to expression my consternt consternation concerning your
poor taste + lack of sympathy for the public, as evidenced by your running of
the ads for the movie "Badlands," featuring the blurb: "In 1959 most people
were killing time. Kit + Holly were killing people." In light of recent events,
this kind of murder-glorification can only be deplorable at best (not that
glorification of violence was ever justifiable) why don't you show some concern
for public sensibilities + cut the ad?

A citizen

Let's quickly note that the message is in perfect, even stuffy, English, and
the one misspelling in it is crossed out.

We know that a genius can pretend to be semi-literate. But can a semi-literate
PRETEND to be literate and use such complex sentence structure?

In February 1974, the Zodiac writes The SLA Letter, which is about the meaning
of a word variant cited in The Oxford English Dictionary.

Here, in May 1974, the Zodiac writes a letter in self-conscious, fastidiously-
phrased English.

This is the same man who draws workable bomb diagrams in freehand, tapes a
penlight to the barrel of his rifle so he can shoot victims on a pitch dark
road, brags about using airplane glue to mask his fingerprints, and twice uses
a term, RADIANS, which tells us his math education at least extended to
trigonometry classes.

The people who post on Zodiac message boards believe Cheri Bates was in The RCC
Library the night she was murdered. She was there for 2 hours and 40 minutes
writing in her notebook, checking the card catalogue, checking the shelves and
charging out books amid the 65 staff and students who were there that night . .
. and no one saw her. An outgoing, pretty blonde cheerleader didn't talk to
anyone all night, and no one talked to her.

There may be intelligent life on Earth; I dont advise looking for it on Zodiac
websites. In any case, I submit, to the non-"Zodiac hobbyists" out there, that
The Badlands Card pretty much dispenses with the notion that the Zodiac was
semi-literate. His misspellings and faulty grammar were a symptom of having to
construct an undertext.

I suspect that's why The Exorcist Letter contains a Zodiac scoreboard at the
bottom, but the other three letters from 1974 were all "signed" with pseudonyms
(a friend, a citizen, the red phantom). In other words, The Exorcist Letter
read like a Zodiac letter, and the other three didn't, so he "pretended" it
wasn't him, like a hold-up man wearing Groucho glasses.

Badlands 2

Of all the Zodiac mailings, one could make the case that The Badlands Card was
the most artistically complex, taking a current movie and turning it into a
self-identifier.

Lets start with the movie itself.

Its based on the story of spree killer Charles Starkweather, but is actually
fictional.



Starkweather's spree took place mostly in Lincoln, Nebraska; Dick Cavett and
his family knew Starkweather as a garage mechanic who seemed normal and
friendly.

The events of Badlands take place in South Dakota, and Badlands itself is a
national park located in South Dakota.

In fact, Mt. Rushmore is located in The Black Hills Forest, just northwest of
The Badlands.



That Mt. Rushmore is near Badlands National Park is itself suggestive.

As Ive said, The Zodiac Project was planned by four people: sculptor Berta
Margoulies, Michael O'Hare, Gareth Penn, and Hugh Penn.




I regret I have no photo of Hugh Penn; let's imagine that his face was blasted
off the mountainside like the original carving of Thomas Jefferson, which was
to the LEFT of George Washington. In any case, the proximity of Mt. Rushmore is
merely suggestive.

I just stumbled across a photo of Hugh Penn on OPORD, the posting circa 2007:



But the reference to Badlands is much more specific.

Badlands 3

The Badlands are famous for one thing.

Extreme shifts of temperature.

If the reader will go with me to The Information Please Almanac
(InfoPlease.com), theres a list of the most extreme temperature shifts ever
recorded.

By the way, its interesting that only Information Please has this info.

Information Please, by acrostic, is I-P, which is P-I backward.

Two of these extreme shifts happened on one day in history.

One was a sudden increase from -4? to 45? in two minutes, recorded at
Spearfish, SD from 7:30am to 7:32am.

http://www.infoplease.com/ipa/A0005317.html

Then the temperature rose another 9? over the next two hours.

Then, at 9:30am, the temperature dropped back from 54? to -4?.

http://www.infoplease.com/ipa/A0005319.html

Significantly, the drop was 58 degrees.

 Z      O    D    I     A   C
26 + 15 + 4 + 9 + 1 + 3 = 58

What date did all this happen?

That's right--Friday, January 22, 1943.

If you've been paying attention, you'll recognize that as Michael O'Hare's DOB.

Which still leaves us with two questions:

1, Since no one, no matter how bright, could be expected to make that
connection . . . how on Earth did Ray Grant manage to make it?

I cannot tell a lie: It was an answer on Jeopardy one night, and seeing the
date made me grab for my almanac. Note that another place with extremes in
temperature would be Hell.

Oh.

2, What clue was implied in the card?

Stark weather in The Badlands.

Count Marco 1

The Zodiac mailed The Count Marco Card on July 9, 1974.



Once again, we see that the Zodiac's semi-literacy was just a ruse.

He not only manages to communicate in correct English, he even copies Marco
Spinelli's handwriting (in fact, he even copies it on the envelope)!

Other than that, Im really not sure what hes getting at here.

So lets do what the subject implies and count MARCO.

  M   A    R     C     O
13 + 1 + 18 + 3 + 15 = 50 (alphabet numbers)

50 may suggest 50 states, which make up the U. S. A.

The Zodiac communicates through the U. S. Postal Service, which is federal.

Plus we now know that The Count Marco Letter was his final mailing.

So it seems reasonable to assume his point has to do WITH the mailings.

So . . . why dont we count the mailings?

Count Marco 2

If you count Marco you get 50.

50 states make up the United States.

And the Zodiac communicated through the federal postal system.

And this was his last letter.

And, by my count, hes now sent 26 letters.

Remember, The Desk Poem and Lake Berryessa car door message dont count,
because they didnt go through The U. S. Post Office/Postal Service (it became
the Postal Service in 1970).

Heres the tally, counting all copies of letters sent:

  1. The Confession Letter 1 (Riverside PD)
  2. The Confession Letter 2 (Riverside Enterprise)
  3. LooseLeaf Letter 1 (Riverside PD)
  4. LooseLeaf Letter 2 (Riverside Enterprise)
  5. LooseLeaf Letter 3 (Joseph Bates)

  6. Cryptogram 1 (Vallejo Times-Herald)
  7. Cryptogram 2 (San Francisco Examiner)
  8. Cryptogram 3 (San Francisco Chronicle)
  9. This Is The Zodiac Speaking
10. The School Bus Threat
11. The Pen Card
12. The Bus Bomb Diagram Letter
13. Dear Melvin
14. The 13-Character Cipher
15. The (Little) Dragon Card
16. The Mt. Diablo Letter
17. The Kidnapping Confirmation Letter
18. The Mikado Letter
19. The Hole Card
20. The Halloween Card
21. The LA Times Letter
22. The Lake Tahoe Card

23. The Exorcist Letter
24. The SLA Letter
25. The Badlands Card
26. The Count Marco Letter

26 letters from the Zodiac.

26 letters of the alphabet.

Would it then be fair to assume that the Zodiac is using the alphabet itself as
a numerical code?

Phantom 1

Sometimes I think I'm the only one working on this case.

In a sense, I am . . . but not in the sense I mean right now.

What I'm saying right now is:

Look, I know my CONCLUSIONS are different from everyone else's.

But my PERCEPTIONS also seem to be different from everyone else's.

Let's use The Count Marco Letter as an example.

Everyone else who writes about this letter talks about The Red Phantom.

But the Zodiac doesn't SAY "Red Phantom"!

Let's go back to The Mt. Diablo Letter for a moment to illustrate the concept:

Remember what I said about all the speculation about "Magnetic North" on the
Phillips 66 map?

The Zodiac never SAYS "Magnetic North"; he says "Mag. N.".

When you're dealing with someone who throws as much misdirection at you as the
Zodiac does, you have to pay attention to WHAT HE ACTUALLY SAYS.

And, I repeat: The Zodiac never actually SAYS "Red Phantom".

Here's what he says:

the Red Phantom
(red with rage)

If I call myself "Red Ray Grant" (red with rage) . . . then I'm NOT really
calling myself "Red Ray Grant", right? Because I'm adding, in the parenthesis,
that 'red' is a modifier. So I'm Ray Grant, and I'm RED only because I'm RED
with rage.

So, since the Zodiac calls himself "the Red Phantom", but then adds that he's
RED with rage, we can assume that he means to call himself The Phantom, right?

But who was The Phantom?

Phantom 2

Who was The Phantom?

I thought you'd never ask!

The Phantom was a serial killer who terrorized Texarkana in 1946.

The Phantoms murders are so similar to those of the Zodiacin many respects
theyre virtually identicalthat it's impossible (for me at least) to believe
he wasnt consciously copying them. It seems, in fact, likely that The Phantom
inspired the Zodiac.

Remember, I said the Robert Salem homicide was committed by someone who was
consciously copying the Manson family murder of Gary Alan Hinman. So the notion
that the Zodiac based his initial string of murders on those of an earlier
serial killer (particularly ones that were committed in 46, which is, of
course, 2 x 23) shouldnt surprise us.

Lets do a little thought-experiment here and try to imagine what the Zodiacs
motivation would be, working backwards.

He sets out to create a puzzle, which will consist of publicly-committed
murders, followed by murders which, though public in the sense of the publics
being aware of them, are not necessarily recognized as his handiwork, and which
he doesnt acknowledge (at least, not on the surface of his letters).

If thats his intent, why would he copy someone else?

Clearly, one would have the most control over the publicity aspect of what you
did if you based it on something that had already happened, right?

You would also be calling attention to your copying of the other case.

Phantom 3

For the moment, lets just consider that The Zodiac Project used The Phantom of
Texarkana, Texas as its model for the actual murders of the Zodiac killer.

What might have attracted the planners to that case?

The Phantom was an unidentified serial killer believed to have committed a
series of murders in Texarkana, Texas between February 23 and May 4, 1946.
(Wikipedia)

http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Phantom_Killer

Immediately we see that the Phantoms attacks began on February 23rd of 1946,
which has the distinction of completing an equation in Zodiacese:

February 23, 1946

2-2346

2 x 23 = 46

The Phantoms first attack, on Friday/Saturday, 2/23/46, was in an apparent
lovers lane, similar to the attack at Lake Herman Road, except that the two
victims, both assaulted, survived.

The first two victims, Jimmy Hollis and Mary Jeanne Larey, described him as
being six feet tall with a white hood mask over his head with holes cut for his
eyes and mouth.

Sounds like a primitive version of the costume at Lake Berryessa!

The second attack occurred exactly a month later, on Saturday, 3/23/46, again
in a lovers lane, but this time the victims were discovered dead the next
morning. Again, similar to Lake Herman Road, the two victims were apparently
forced out of the car and killed twenty feet away with shots to the head,
though their bodies were put back inside the car.

The third pair of lovers lane victims were killed Sunday, 4/14/46 in a place
called Spring Lake Park (which sounds like Blue Rock Springs). The mans body
was found a mile-and-a-half from his car; the womans was found two miles from
the car, both in rural surroundings similar to Lake Berryessa.

On Saturday, 5/4/46, an assailant attacked a farmhouse, shot a man to death and
wounded his wife with a .22 semi-automatic, not a .32 pistol as he had used
previously.

On Monday, 5/6/46, a man was found stabbed to death on the railroad tracks
north of Texarkana. His body was apparently dragged to where it was found.

Like the Zodiac, the Phantom had broken his pattern, and, like the Zodiac, he
suddenly stopped killing and was never heard from again.

Except that relatives of the victims received phone calls in the years
following the murders from someone claiming to be the daughter of the killer,
apologizing for his deeds. It should be noted that the main suspect in the case
had been jailed on unrelated charges in July, 1946, remained in jail until
1974, and died in 1994. He had no daughter.

I realize that at least one book has compared the two cases, but I'm not
suggesting that The Phantom was The Zodiac (for one thing, The Phantom sexually
assaulted his female victims, and The Zodiac didn't).

What I AM suggesting is that the Zodiac used The Phantom as his primary model,
and that he was pointing that out in The Count Marco Letter . . . in the very
last thing he said.

PostScript (1978)

And no, the April 1978 letter is NOT a Zodiac letter.

Im not accusing anyone here. Ill leave others to jump to whatever conclusions
they wish, since the letters not from the Zodiac and therefore doesnt concern
me.

By the way, why would the Zodiac say that city pig Toschi is good?

Because of the tremendous progress SFPD had made in the case?

They were breathing right down his neck, right?

I can prove, cryptographically, that the April 1978 letter isnt from the
Zodiac. Such proof, however, is beyond the scope of this book, which is to
present as simple a solution as possible (and to avoid the detail thats to be
found in earlier editions of this book).

But it comes down to this:

If you convert each Zodiac letter to Morse code and then use your computers
search function to look for strings, you find a very significant undertext,
usually consisting of literary and classical references, in every single
purported Zodiac letter.

Except for the April 1978 letter, which behaves just like regular text.

Which is to say, digital strings show up in the undertext about as often as
they would in any random passage of text anywhere.

Theres a reason for this.

ITS BECAUSE THE PERSON WHO COMPOSED THE 1978 LETTER DIDNT KNOW THE ZODIAC
LETTERS CONTAINED A CRYPTOGRAPHIC UNDERTEXT.

Because he wasnt the Zodiac.

The person who composed the 1978 letter probably wouldnt know what a
cryptographic undertext was, even if you explained it to him.

In that sense, he has a lot in common with posters on Zodiac message boards.

1974 Review

The 1974 mailings use current events to evoke his themes.

  1. The gaps in years between Zodiac events spell out his name.

  2. The Zodiac usesfound poem in the 1974 letters.

  3. TITWILLO in The Exorcist Letter evokes circles and 1-43.

  4. Linda Blair is 1-22 by acrostic, and she was born January 22nd.

  5. The SLA Letter is a reference to Dants Inferno and A. D. 1300.

  6. The final three letters prove the Zodiac is literate, not semi-literate.

  7. The Badlands are near Mt. Rushmore.

  8. Mt. Rushmore suggests four authors for The Zodiac Project.

  9. The Badlands are famous for sudden shifts in temperature.

10. The Information Please Almanac lists the same date for two such shifts.

11. Two historic temperature shifts occurred January 22, 1943.

12. COUNT MARCO equates the mailing of 26 letters to use of the alphabet.

13. The Zodiac signs himself The (Red) Phantom at the very end.

14. The Phantom was a serial killer in Texarkana in 1946.

15. The Zodiac murders may have been modeled on The Phantos.

16. The April 1978 Letter was NOT authored by the Zodiac.


Michael O'Hare 1968-1974

The last we saw Michael OHare, he was publishing his maiden journal article in
Progressive Architecture, March 1967: Wind Whistles Through MIT Tower.



The Zodiac was VERY busy between then and 1974.

Even at my halting pace, I've already covered the entire span of what the
hobbyists consider to be the Zodiac case:

The Lake Herman Road Murders to The Count Marco Letter
December 20, 1968                        -                       July 9, 1974

Those dates don't even come close to spanning The Zodiac Project.

Besides the four canonical murder events (LAKE HERMAN ROAD, BLUE ROCK
SPRINGS, LAKE BERRYESSA, and PRESIDIO HEIGHTS), the Zodiac had committed four
other murders by 1974 (CHERI BATES, SHELLY HOLMBOE, ROBERT SALEM, and DONNA
LASS), and he was by no means finished.

Still, the reader has to be strolling toward that wind-whipped vestibule of The
MIT Tower and wondering just what an academic professional like Michael OHare
was up to, while his alter-ego was running amok in The San Francisco Bay Area
1968-1974.



What was Michael O'Hare doing, you ask?

To some extent, you can answer that question by asking yourself where the
Zodiac was.

For example, around midnight on July 4, 1969, Michael O'Hare was in Vallejo,
California, pulling into the parking lot of the Blue Rock Springs Golf Course
(and grabbing a flashlight and 9mm gun off the seat of his Corvair/Mustang/
Impala).

At 9:45pm or so on October 11, 1969, Michael O'Hare was at the corner of
Washington & Cherry Streets in San Francisco, getting out of the back seat of
Paul Stines cab (and about to get into the front seat).

Oh wait . . . you want to know where he was when he WASNT appearing in various
places and in various guises as the Zodiac?

In other words . . . you want to know where he was and what he was doing
GENERALLY, when he WASN'T gunning down teenagers and offering pregnant women
and their babies a lift to the next service station?

Well, half the answer is straightforward, and I'll be discussing Michael
O'Hare's resume, which has been deliberately falsified to cover up his Zodiac
activity, in detail momentarily.

And . . . half the answer may come as a bit of a shock!

Because Michael OHare told the police who he was.

The reader thinks I mean, "cryptographically".

No. I mean he actually TOLD the police who he was.

Or, at the very least, WHERE they could find him.

I said this book would appeal to puzzle people.

There is a clue Ive already discussed that was literally handed to every
police agency in The San Francisco Bay Area, which would reduce the search for
the Zodiac to perhaps a few dozen people, and certainly less than a hundred.

Once they figured it out, picking Michael O'Hare, the Zodiac killer, from the
gallery of potential suspects wouldnt have taken very longan afternoons
work, if that.

When you consider how much attention police DID pay to that clue, its amazing
they didnt manage to stumble over him somehow.

Signature Letter

On March 22, 1971, the Zodiac mailed The Lake Tahoe Card to The SF Chronicle.



Here's a pop quiz for the reader:

Q: How is The Lake Tahoe Card different from all the other Zodiac letters?

A: The Lake Tahoe Card is the Zodiac's "signature" mailing.

I mentioned earlier that I want the reader to view the Zodiac's four ciphers as
ONE single cipher.

Now, I want the reader to look at the Zodiac's 26 mailings as if they were ONE
single letter.
 
  1. The Confession Letter 1 (Riverside PD)
  2. The Confession Letter 2 (Riverside Enterprise)
  3. LooseLeaf Letter 1 (Riverside PD)
  4. LooseLeaf Letter 2 (Riverside Enterprise)
  5. LooseLeaf Letter 3 (Joseph Bates)

  6. Cryptogram 1 (Vallejo Times-Herald)
  7. Cryptogram 2 (San Francisco Examiner)
  8. Cryptogram 3 (San Francisco Chronicle)
  9. This Is The Zodiac Speaking
10. The School Bus Threat
11. The Pen Card
12. The Bus Bomb Diagram Letter
13. Dear Melvin
14. The 13-Character Cipher
15. The (Little) Dragon Card
16. The Mt. Diablo Letter
17. The Kidnapping Confirmation Letter
18. The Mikado Letter
19. The Hole Card
20. The Halloween Card

21. The LA Times Letter
22. The Lake Tahoe Card

23. The Exorcist Letter
24. The SLA Letter
25. The Badlands Card
26. The Count Marco Letter

Letters 1-5 are the Heading and Greeting of the ONE letter, separated by more
than two years from The SF Bay Area letters . . . and Letters 23-26 are
PSeudonymous, separated by almost three years from The SF Bay Area letters--
they are figuratively and literally PSs.

Which leaves us Letters 6-22 as the body of the ONE letter.

When one considers that Letters 21 and 22 are also separated by five months
from Letter 20, Letter 21 can be said to be the Closing ("yours truly"), and
Letter 22 then becomes the signature of the ONE letter.

    Letters 1-5: Heading and Greeting

  Letters 6-20: Main body of letter

       Letter 21: Closing
       Letter 22: Signature

Letters 23-26: PSs

If this view of the letters seems a bit "imaginative", The Lake Tahoe Card
nonetheless remains the last mailing in which the Zodiac uses the name
'Zodiac'.  The last four letters are effectively PSs, in which he uses
signatures other than his own.  What precedes the PostScripts in a letter is
the signature.

How is Letter 22 the Zodiac's signature?  It's his signature in terms of where
it occurs in the overall pattern--it occurs where the signature would normally
be.

That signature letter, The Lake Tahoe Card, is also the one in which he tells
us who he is.

Forest Pines

What's so different about The Lake Tahoe Card, you ask?

The Lake Tahoe Card is the only Zodiac mailing that includes a reference to
specific individuals other than the victims themselves, or public people
associated with the case (Melvin Belli, Paul Avery, Marco Spinelli), though the
card itself was addressed to Paul Avery.  The Zodiac mailings are generic in
the sense that the killer normally avoids references to local details.  He
mentions Cheri Jo Bates by name ("Miss Bates"), most likely because he wants to
remind us that her name contains that of the founder of the 7th Day Adventist
Church (Joseph Bates), the church of the victims at Lake Berryessa.  Otherwise,
he simply refers to the victims generically.

In The Lake Tahoe Card, the Zodiac sends an ad for a Lake Tahoe resort
condominium, Forest Pines, pasted to the post card.  The ad appeared in The SF
Chronicle two days before the mailing.  Because the condo was in Lake Tahoe,
the mailing seemed to acknowledge the kidnapping (and presumed murder) of Donna
Lass as a Zodiac crime.

As Captain Roy Conway told me more than two decades ago, police agencies
associated with the Zodiac case spent a tremendous amount of time trying to
figure out the precise location of the punched hole in the card as it related
to the area around Forest Pines.  Believe it or not, the idea that Donna Lass
was buried somewhere by the Zodiac, and that it was up to investigators to find
that burial location, did not originate with Ray Grant.  Police agencies were
following that line of thought in the spring of 1971, almost 20 years before I
did.  Unfortunately, they didn't find Donna Lass anywhere in the vicinity (she
was already buried in Portsmouth Square Park).



If Forest Pines wasn't a reference to Donna Lass's burial location, why make it
the centerpiece of your last mailing in The Bay Area (until 1974)?  It wasn't
the last place the victim was seen (the Sahara Hotel was), and it certainly
wasn't where she lived.

Forest Pines was a brand-new condo project; it had just been built when the
card was sent.

So why go to the trouble of cutting out the ad and pasting it onto a post card,
along with some cut-out phrases from newspapers?  If he's claiming Donna Lass
as a victim, as the police obviously believed, why bring in this brand-new
building project that had nothing to do with Donna Lass personally?

Think about what Forest Pines was when that card was sent.  It was a resort
condo project that was being advertised in the newspaper.  It was, for lack of
a better term, a commodity.

Now: What was Michael O'Hare doing in March 1971?

He was dealing in just that type of commodity.  We don't know the exact span of
his employment there, but for the year or two prior to that mailing, Michael
O'Hare was working at Arthur D. Little in San Francisco, a consulting firm
whose purpose was to escort building projects from the planning stage to
completion by negotiating the permit process through whatever hurdles,
including zoning boards and local politicians, presented themselves.

If you had a vision that involved putting a building up somewhere in northern
California, it was Michael O'Hare's job to turn your dream into reality.

What's that, you say?  That's a connection, but not a specific one?

Then let's take it a step further.  The consulting firm involved in the process
with Forest Pines was . . . you guessed it: Arthur D. Little!

When I called ADL in 1990, the associate I spoke with readily remembered all
the hubbub involved in their office's project, Forest Pines, just after that
mailing in March 1971.  She also remembered Michael O'Hare working there around
the same time (though again, we can't be sure of the exact dates of his
employment).

Here's how gullible some people are: Michael O'Hare writes a feature for The
Washington Monthly in 2009 in which he points out that

I spent a summer in San Franciscin 1969, I thinworking at Arthur D. Little,
Inc., on a study of expanding the San Diego airport. This emerged from Pens
analysis as having been a ski condominium development in Lake Tahoe (a project
I had had nothing to do with); how it connects to the crimes I have no idea.  

How bizarre does a suspect's behavior have to get before the average Zodiac
hobbyist decides he's worth taking seriously as a POI?  That depends on what he
does for a living and what his background is.  If he's a derelict like Arthur
Leigh Allen, or a delinquent like "Bob Barnett", even being cleared
forensically (both men were initially excluded by fingerprint mismatches) still
isn't enough to remove him from the suspect list.

On the other hand, if he's an academic professional with degrees from Harvard,
he can say almost anything, put up a defense so lame it would get him disbarred
if he was his own lawyer, and the jury of Zodiac hobbyists will chuckle
appreciatively like his own personal laugh track.

Let's just examine those two sentences of Mr. O'Hare's, quoted above:

1. Two people have written books accusing him of being the Zodiac killer, but
he doesn't remember when he worked in San Francisco.  In his entire
professional life, Michael O'Hare had exactly ONE job that wasn't located in
Greater Boston prior to 1991.  He'd worked for MIT, The Commonwealth of
Massachusetts, The Boston Museum, and Harvard.  The only job he ever held
outside Suffolk County was at ADL--just don't ask him WHEN that was, he doesn't
recall.

I'm reluctant to cite Gareth Penn for obvious reasons, but pages 255-257 of
Times 17 shows us three Michael O'Hare documents: 255), his resume from
September 1981, 256), his Architectural Record article from July 1969, and
257), his 1973 dissertation.  The resume has him working for ADL in 1967-1968,
the AR piece in 1969, and the dissertation in 1970.  If you're keeping score
along with me, that makes O'Hare, by his own admission, an ADL employee from
1967 until 1970.  Granted, he wasn't stationed in San Francisco throughout that
period, but the timeline is consistent with his being able to commute back and
forth to The Bay Area office for the various planning commission meetings and
other work associated with Forest Pines.

Do you remember the jobs listed on your resume, reader?  I've worked more
places than Michael O'Hare has, and I can still tick them off, citing dates of
employment at various venues, without having to consult any paperwork.  All
mine are in Greater Pittsburgh, but I'm guessing that if I'd worked one of
those jobs in San Francisco, I'd remember exactly when I was there.

2. O'Hare read just enough of Penn's analysis to know that Penn cited Forest
Pines as O'Hare's connection to the Zodiac mailings, but he doesn't know how it
connects to the crimes.  O'Hare has apparently gone to the trouble of getting
copies of Penn's articles, which are only available in publications with tiny
circulations, like The Ecphorizer, or maybe he's looked up the information
online.  On the other hand, O'Hare HASN'T gone to the trouble of reading a book
like Robert Graysmith's Zodiac, which is available in the True Crime section of
any book store, and the information in Graysmith's book is also available
online (Zodiac Unmasked is even available in a Kindle version for 8 bucks).

3. O'Hare worked at ADL in San Francisco four decades ago.  Records of his
assignments there would have been kept long before the office was computerized;
it is impossible to determine, at this late date, which specific projects he
worked on, and his memory isn't to be trusted.

Michael O'Hare is already asking us to believe that he's been accused of being
the Zodiac killer by two different people who wrote books explaining their
theories in detail, one of whom actually sent copies of his book to O'Hare's
place of employment, The JFK School at Harvard, in 1990, and yet O'Hare hasn't
bothered to read either book or ANY book about the Zodiac killer, and only has
the vaguest idea what the Zodiac murders were about.  This from an academic
professional who would, presumably, have a well-developed intellectual
curiosity that got him where he is now.

Lee Harvey Oswald, who denied everything including his purchase of the Carcano
rifle used to assassinate JFK, was still a more convincing liar than Michael
O'Hare.

4. If, as police believed, the Zodiac was claiming credit for the Donna Lass
murder by sending them a picture of Forest Pines--could he have done that by
sending them a picture of the San Diego Airport?  The Forest Pines ad, a mere
two days old when it was mailed, connects the Zodiac to Donna Lass AND to ADL,
and ADL connects to Michael O'Hare.

5. Neither Michael O'Hare nor Gareth Penn seems to know which condo project the
Zodiac referenced in The Lake Tahoe Card.  The ad was for Forest Pines, which
is a real resort condo that was built, advertised, and can be found on the
Internet.

http://www.inclineattahoe.com/vacation-rentals/Forest-Pines-1-56-Vacation-
Rental/subpage334.html

On the other hand, Times 17 refers to "Incline Village, Unit 6", a project Penn
says was never approved by the local zoning board and thus, never built.  As
Penn pointed out at the time, Boise Cascade, the developer, "never put two
sticks together".

If the project was never built, how could an ad for it have appeared in The SF
Chronicle, and how could police in the area have searched for Donna Lass's
burial location in the vicinity, using the punched hole as a reference?

I suspect the answer to this confusion lies in the timing conflict.  If ads for
Forest Pines were in The SF Chronicle on March 20, 1971, that means all permit
and zoning issues would have been addressed a year or two prior.  No developer
is going to advertise if he's got nothing to show prospective buyers, so a
model at the very least would have been constructed prior to the ad.  Before
the model was built, any permit and/or zoning issues would have been settled.

In other words, the permit process for a project that WAS at least partially
built by March 1971 would have taken place in 1969/1970.  The problem is,
Gareth Penn had to suggest that Michael O'Hare was still in The Bay Area later
than that, not because he had to be there to commit a murder--with the
exception of the Donna Lass murder, there were NO actual Zodiac crimes in The
Bay Area after the Robert Salem murder in the spring of 1970--but because he
had to be present to mail the letters with local postmarks.

Of course, since two of the four Zodiac conspirators lived in California, it
wasn't really necessary for Michael O'Hare to be on the West Coast throughout
that time.  By suggesting that O'Hare attended planning commission meetings for
"Incline Village, Unit 6" up until March 1971, Gareth Penn gave Michael O'Hare
a logistical reason to be there.

A dozen or so years ago, Mike Butterfield changed his allegiance from Gareth
Penn to Michael O'Hare after doing perfunctory research on the South Lake Tahoe
Regional Planning Commission, and discovering that O'Hare's name was nowhere to
be found among the records for the "Incline Village, Unit 6" application (and
subsequent denial).  It's hilarious that Butterfield switched horses in the
middle of Lake Tahoe, when the ruse was actually set up to cover for O'Hare's
absence during some of the 70/71 mailings.  It's yet another example of
Butterfield's enormous ego outweighing his common sense.   


 

Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** 1980/1981 ******

As I said in the Intro Section, Gareth Penn is one of four Zodiac conspirators.



Gareth and I have never met in person (to my knowledge), but I became aware of
Gareth because he wrote an article in the July/August 1985 issue of The Mensa
Bulletin entitled The Calculus of Evil which featured, in bowdlerized form to
protect Mensa from a possible lawsuit, his theory of the real intent behind the
Zodiac murders.



At the end of that article, the editor, Kent Van Cleave, added a footnote on
Gareths background, concluding with:

We are omitting references that specifically identify his suspect, which may be
frustrating to curious readers. Penn, however, has gone public with his
identification of the Zodiac, and will expand on the conclusions offered here
for any Mensans who send a SASE to him at the above address.

After reading the article, I immediately wrote to Gareth, and began a
correspondence by letter and telephone, which lasted the better part of four
years (almost five if you count Gareths letter of May 22, 1990).

I will discuss what Gareth sent to me in the SASE when we get to that part of
the story.

In 2010, Gareth made a rather lame attempt to misrepresent our relationship on
his anonymous blog (his name is nowhere to be found on it), GZ4216:

Ray Grant is just one of hundreds of people with whom I corresponded a quarter
century ago, most of whose names I have not retained. I would not characterize
him as afriend.

One cant help being struck by how many of the investigators and journalists
Gareth encountered in Times 17 with whom he is no longer on speaking terms at
the end of the book; its pretty much all of them. Add to that group myself,
since I choose NOT to count serial killers among my friends, and Gareths
spouse at the time, Diane Merrill, who managed to obtain a rather nasty divorce
from my erstwhile friend some years later, in the process somehow holding onto
the house shed bought with her own money before taking in her homeless husband
. . . and one is left with Hugh Penn, Gareths birth father, who divorced
Gareths mother when Gareth was but a boy, and with whom Gareth had a
relationship that can only be described as . . . odd.

In my own case, if I wasnt exactly Gareths friend, I think its fair to say I
was more than just a casual acquaintance:

1, Gareth sent me pictures of himself and his wife at the time, which I still
have.

2, Gareth asked me to help him advertise Times 17 through Mensas Special
Interest Groups, which are called SIGs, and which are technically independent
of Mensa (at the time, I was editor of two such groups, and knew many other
editors), after the dictatorial Executive Director of American Mensa, the late
Margot Seitelman, refused him access to any official publication (whether he
paid for it or not).

3, I called Gareth immediately after the publication of Times 17 in 1987 to
give him my critique of the book. When I called again the next day, his wife
answered the phone, and told me that Gareth had been in a good mood ever since
talking to me. He clearly took my opinion very seriously, and he kept writing
to me in 1989 and 1990 even after he knew I suspected him, and had myself
ceased writing to him.

I was active in national Mensa politics, having run for First Vice-Chairman of
The American Mensa Committee in 1987, plus I went to lots of conventions (which
are called Regional Gatherings in Mensa), so besides our mutual interest in the
Zodiac case, we knew many of the same people. Eventually, Gareths behavior, as
witnessed by other members I knew in the group, became one of the reasons I
began to suspect him.

I will detail my personal interaction with Gareth when I get to it
chronologically. Gareth claims to have made his radian discovery in late 1980,
and I would not talk to him until the summer of 1985, so for the moment Ill
keep myself out of the narrative.

Whats important for the reader to realize here is that there are TWO Gareth
Penns.

Theres the REAL Gareth Penn.

And then theres the Gareth Penn as he presents himself in Times 17.

Remember what I said earlier about comic book superheroes being similar to
serial killers, because both have secret identities?

Ill cite some examples off the top of my head (the reader may note that Im a
DC Comics, not a Marvel Comics, person):

Comic Book Superheroes
Superman had Clark Kent.
Batman had Bruce Wayne.
Green Lantern had Hal Jordan.
The Flash had Barry Allen.
Wonder Woman had Diana Prince.
Green Arrow had Oliver Queen.
The Atom had Ray Palmer.

Serial Killers
The Unabomber had Ted Kaczynski
The Yorkshire Ripper had Peter Sutcliffe.
Son of Sam had David Berkowitz.
Seattle Ted had Ted Bundy.
The Green River Killer had Gary Ridgway.
The BTK Killer had Denis Rader.
The Hillside Strangler had Ken Bianchi and Angelo Buono.

The Zodiac Project had Michael OHare, Berta Margoulies, and Hugh Penn, but the
franchise also had a spin-off character named Gareth Penn. Where other serial
killers had flirted with being their own publicity agents (Son of Sam and The
BTK Killer), and in at least one instance, the p. r. man was completely
independent of the killer (The Yorkshire Ripper and Wearside Jack), The Zodiac
Project is unique in having a DESIGNATED publicity agent who posed as an
independent investigator.

Its important to realize that Times 17 isnt a true life account of what
Gareth Penn did after he discovered The Mt. Diablo Radian. Gareth helped plan
the Zodiac events, so he already KNEW about The Mt. Diablo Radian. His account
of the discovery and some of the subsequent events is purely fictitious, but
some of what he reports actually happened.

Its not as if Gareth Penn didnt have encounters with Ken Narlow and Bob
Graysmith and Ray Grant during his journey toward the truth. He already knew
what the truth was. The only suspense was in whether he could con
investigators, both professional and amateur, into following up on his
theories, without them suspecting his own involvement.

Why would a conspirator in a serial murder case implicate his fellow
conspirators?

The Zodiac Project is, first and foremost, a puzzle, and there would be no
point in constructing such an elaborate maze if no one other than the
conspirators ever traveled down its dark corridors with a flashlight (perhaps
one taped to a gun barrel).

The only way to get people into your maze is to show them the entrance to it.

The Date

Lets begin with the date itself.

In his book Times 17, Gareth Penn recounts making a momentous discovery on
Friday evening, December 26, 1980 (page 24). His discovery will come to be
known, in Zodiac killer circles, as The Mt. Diablo Radian.

 


Oddly enough, the radian discovery is the only event in Gareths book, other
than his recounting of the crimes themselves, in which hes specific about the
date. Even when he makes the connection to Michael OHare, on a trip to the
Napa City and County Library (page 31), he doesnt specify the date when the
discovery takes place, or even mention the directory he found it in. Which is
good, since no directory at that library contains any such information.



The beginning of the Zodiacs public activity, at least in The SF Bay Area, is
The Lake Herman Road murders on Friday evening, December 20, 1968.

The entry of Gareth Penn into the Zodiac case occurs with his discovery of The
Mt. Diablo Radian on Friday evening, December 26, 1980.

Friday evening, December 20, 1968 = 12-20-68 = 122068

Friday evening, December 26, 1980 = 12-26-80 = 122680



When confronted by that pesky Ray Grant and his preoccupation with phone
numbers, Gareth Penn has shouted from the rooftops that his own number in 1983
. . .

(415) 499-0670

. . . just happens, purely by chance you understand, in its last five digits,
to contain the date of Donna Lasss disappearance from Stateline/South Lake
Tahoe.

90670 = September 6, 1970

If thats just a coincidence, is this also just a coincidence?

122068
122680

The only difference between those two number sequences is the placement of the
zero.

Times 17

Those readers familiar with my approach to examining conventional evidence know
that I like to start at the very beginning of a time sequence, and move forward
taking the smallest steps possible, downshifting to the lowest gear on the time
machine.

Im going to do that here with Times 17; Ill start with the very first thing
that happens, not in Gareths narrative but chronologically, and move forward
one moment at a time.



The first two-and-a-half pages of Gareths book recount the Zodiac events in
California, from Riverside to Presidio Heights:

During the period October 1966 through October 1969 . . .

The first event involving any action by Gareth Penn himself occurs about
halfway down page 3.



And its NOT his discovery of The Mt. Diablo Radian, but his account of a
conversation between himself and his father, Hugh Penn:

In December 1980, I learned of the contents of the Mount Diablo Letter by word
of mouth from my father, Hugh Penn, who had read it while working at the
Attorney General's Office in Sacramento. He mentioned it to me and suggested
that it seemed rather incongruous for someone who had been passed off as a
moron by the police even to know what a radian is, let alone use the word in a
sentence. I had to agree.

First, note how odd that wording is:

I learned of the contents of the Mount Diablo Letter by word of mouth from my
father, Hugh Penn

Gareth emphasizes that the message was conveyed by word of mouth, instead of
just saying that his father told him about the letter. I believe Gareth does
this to separate himself from the version of the letter that his father appears
to be putting forth. In other words, Gareth is giving himself Deniability, just
in case hes challenged about the contents of a page that, as far as anyone can
tell, doesnt even exist.

Jake Wark commented on this on Tom Voigts original archived message board:

Penn claims that the passage quoted above was distilled through his father's
memory -- Penn pere was a statistician with the CA Atty General's Office, and
had looked at several letters but apparently never made copies. My guess is
that Penn fils got the Mikado letter and the Mt. Diablo letter mixed up, since
the Mikado letter mentioned the radians and the Mt. Diablo map wasn't published
until the 1990s.

Well, maybe. But if this was the case, how did Hugh Penn gain access to a page
from a Zodiac letter that wasnt available to the public?

Hugh Penn was an administrator/investigator working at the Attorney General's
office in Sacramento, an agency which did not itself have an ongoing Zodiac
investigation . . . yet he was somehow able to read a copy of the Zodiac letter
whose second page of text, if it exists, has never been published.

[The Zodiac] suggested that "something interesting" would be found if the
authorities were to place a radian on Mount Diablo, a prominent Bay Area
landmark.

Gareth Penn mentions demonstrating the radian for Ken Narlow on page 26.

He responded that he had been wondering for the last ten years what a radian
was.

This account might make more sense if Ken Narlow had been one of a handful of
police officers who had gotten a look at the letter. However, if Hugh Penn, an
administrator with the Attorney Generals Office, had seen it, then it's clear
the letter was looked at by a lot of law enforcement people, many of whom, like
Hugh Penn, had college degrees.



Keep in mind that, when the authorities received The Lake Tahoe Card, police
agencies dug numerous holes in the ground in the vicinity of Forest Pines,
trying to match the placement of the punched hole in the card itself, looking
for the burial spot of Donna Lass. So how likely is it that, if there WAS a
second page of text in The Mt. Diablo Letter, which said that something
interesting would be found if the authorities were to place a radian on Mt.
Diablo, that no one would think to try out that exercise for more than a decade
after it was received?

The answer is: No one thought to try out the exercise because the letter DIDNT
say that.

The hint WAS given at the end of The Mikado Letter, but it was sufficiently
removed from the contents of The Mt. Diablo Letter that trying out the exercise
didnt occur to anyone. And even if that second page of text DID exist, and
everyone missed the significance of the suggestion the first time out, would
Zodiac hobbyists still deny the validity of the radian exercise if the Zodiac
HAD said that something interesting would be found if authorities placed a
radian on Mt. Diablo?  I doubt it.

If the second page of the letter said that, it hasnt come to light in the four
decades since. In point of fact, nothing in The Mt. Diablo Letter itself
suggests the exercise Gareth proceeds with that Friday evening. To the
contrary, the single page of text as its been presented to us over the past
40+ years seems quite self-contained:



Am I being too literal here?

Those readers who have followed the career of Gareth Penn have noted his
obsessive-compulsive insistence on linguistic precision. Here's a snippet from
a post on his blog about me:

I do not deny knowing Ray Grant. I was asked,Why didt you ever sue your
friend Ray, and I responded,I dot have a friend named Ray, nor do I know
anyone, even casually, with that name. The last Ray I can remember having
known (see above). You will note that I was not asked if I knew Ray Grant; I
was asked why I wast suing myfriend Ray [no surname Is important, when
you hold someone responsible for something he has said, that you quote what he
actually said and not something that you have fabricated. I do not, in fact,
have a friend named Ray, I do not currently know anyone with that name, and
until you jogged my memory, I did not recall Ray Grant (you will note that I
did not categorically deny ever having known anyone namedRa other than the
ones I cited; I wroteThe last Ray I can remembe).

Ill discuss Gareths opinion of me at a later date. In the meantime, note that
Mr. Penn is an absolute stickler for literalism. When it comes to What Was
Said, What Wasnt Said, and all the inferences, implications, and nuances
between those two antipodes, Gareth Penn is second-to-none as a semantic hair-
splitter.

This, then, seems odd in light of the casual approach Gareth Penn took to the
source of the single most important piece of information he ever received. If,
for example, youre a reasonably intelligent person, and someone tells you that
you just won the Powerball lottery, the first thing youre going to do is check
your ticket and make sure your numbers match whats been posted.

But Gareth is clearly so caught up in trying out the radian exercise that he
doesnt bother to ask his dad any specifics about the part of the letter where
the exercise is suggested.

I bought a sheet of clear acetate and a marking pen. Using a protractor and a
straightedge, I drew an angle between 57 and 58 degrees on the acetate and then
laid the acetate over a map of the Bay Area.



Again, someone who insists on precision in others is uncharacteristically vague
in his wording here. WHAT map of the Bay Area is he talking about? He cant
mean the Phillips 66 map page that came with The Mt. Diablo Letter, since Blue
Rock Springs is NOT featured on that map.  As the reader himself can see,
Gareth's 'X' for the Blue Rock Springs Park crime scene would be above the top
margin of the map page the Zodiac sent with The Mt. Diablo Letter.



If, on the other hand, by "a map of the Bay Area", hes talking about a USGS
quadrangle (7.5 minutes squared), or even an entire 1? squared section, since
Times 17 is loaded with geodetic references, no Geological Survey map features
both VABM 3849 (Mt. Diablo) AND the points in Vallejo and Presidio Heights. You
might find all three on a standard service station map, or on a much larger
scale topographic map, but not with enough detail to determine the placements
of the murder scenes with the precision required of the exercise.

I placed the apex of the angle on Mount Diablo, then rotated the angle around
until one leg passed through the scene of the murder at Blue Rock Springs. Then
I felt as if a ton of bricks had fallen on me. The other leg of the angle went
straight through Presidio Heights in San Francisco where the Zodiac had
murdered the cabby. It was the most shocking experience of my entire life.

The shock therapy of this experience actually changed Gareth into another
person.

Heres the citation from Gareth Penns Wikipedia entry:

Penn graduated from the University of California, Berkeley in 1962 with a
Bachelor of Arts degree (BA) in Germanic languages and again in 1965 with an
Master of Arts (MA) in Medieval Germanic languages. He received a Master of
Library Science (MLS) from U.C. Berkeley in 1971.

Gareth received a Master of Library Science from U. C. Berkeley in 1971. If you
have an advanced degree in library science, and youre citing the single most
important fact youve ever encountered in a self-published book (which means
you have total control over how you present your material), how precise are you
going to be about the source of that information?

Remember, Gareth isnt reporting what happened to him in real time. His radian
exercise took place in late 1980, and his book was written in the spring of
1987. He had more than a half-dozen years to double-check and triple-check his
sources.  Plus, since hed been recounting those very events to various
investigators and reporters during that span, he figured to have lots of
practice explaining himself.

No such reference to something interesting exists in the original letter, and
Gareth never addresses the subject again.

[The Zodiac] suggested that "something interesting" would be found if the
authorities were to place a radian on Mount Diablo, a prominent Bay Area
landmark . . . the solution of the cipher would give the location of a "buried
bomb" and that it would be necessary to go "four inches along the radian" to
find it.

Gareths version of events following his discovery of the radian is interrupted
by various verbal excursions into the history of language and the methodology
of communicating with extraterrestrial civilizations. He begins his tale of
radian discovery on page 3 of his book, and after numerous side trips, resumes
the narrative on page 24.

When I discovered the secret of the radian on the evening of December 26, 1980,
I was profoundly affected by it. I had discovered something which was known to
only one other person in the world, someone who had viciously attacked eight
people, killing six of them.

Note once again how Gareth dwells on the date. He wants us to remember the
exact date on which he made the radian discovery.  This may seem natural to a
reader unfamiliar with the book, but one will page through Times 17 in vain
looking for dates applied to other events, including Gareth's making the
connection to Michael OHare.

Speaking of the police, I had to call them.

If your father had been a police administrator, and was also the source of the
information that led to your momentous discovery, wouldnt he be the first
person you called?

I could relieve myself of my dirty feeling only by having someone in authority
take over the knowledge, which I could feel bearing down on me like a heavy
burden.

Gareth Penn was born on January 1, 1941. If you take him at his word, he made
the radian discovery on December 26, 1980, six days short of his 40th birthday.
He had three degrees from Cal-Berkeley and had served in the army, and if he
wasnt the most sociable person you were likely to meet, he was certainly no
ones fool.

And yet, in the immediate aftermath of his radian discovery, he turns into
Dagwood Bumstead.

I got the number of San Francisco Police Department from directory assistance.

Gareth Penn, the information specialist with the advanced degree, calls
Information.

I dialed the number around nine in the evening. I got a desk sergeant. I told
him I had some important new information about the Zodiac murderer. He asked me
if he could take the information over the phone. I was still slightly out of my
body at the moment and was able to see myself as I looked at the map, then
looked at the phone, double-taking over the problem of making him see a picture
on a map over the wire. I realized how ludicrous the situation was and made a
mental note to laugh about it after I had hung up. I thanked him and said that
I would call back another time.

The logical thing for someone of Gareth's intelligence to do, assuming that
SFPD was the first call he'd make, would be to ask for the Homicide Detail. 
Instead, he acts as if he's reporting a street crime.

It was the most shocking experience of my entire life.

The very first person I would have told would have been my father, since he was
the source of the information, and especially since, having been an
investigator and administrator for police and prosecutorial agencies, he would
likely know the best way to proceed with this information.

My next move would have been to arrange to look at the letter myself, if
possible. Since, by Gareths own admission, the information came by word of
mouth, its possible that something was lost in the translation between what
was on the page of the Zodiacs letter and what his father had related.

Its unlikely that Hugh Penn saw a copy of the letter because he was visiting
one of the police agencies involved in the case, since the first thing those
investigators would have asked him is, Who wants to know? Penn, Sr.s job with
the Attorney Generals Office would not have included anything about the
Zodiac, and couldnt, since he worked for a prosecutors office and the Zodiac
hadnt been identified or arrested yet.

So the most likely explanation for Hugh Penn seeing a copy of the letter was
that a copy of the letter was sent to the specific office where he was working,
and he was able to get a look at it. If thats the case, it should not have
been difficult for Gareth himself to get a look at the letter, or at least to
have his father confirm what he reported seeing in the letter.

The next logical thing for Gareth to do would be to actually go to the Attorney
Generals Office and to demonstrate the radian exercise for the officials
there. If people in the office were impressed by the information, Gareths own
word would have carried a lot more weight with the Department of Justice behind
it.

Instead, Gareth experiences amnesia about where the radian clue came from.

All day Saturday, I was in a stew. I was fairly exploding with the news and had
nobody to explode on.

Except his dad, of course. Hugh Penn, who had a college degree and had been a
cryptographer during his time in the Army during World War II, figured to be
the most intelligent person associated with police agencies that Gareth could
break the news to.  But Gareth, for some reason, wants to disassociate Hugh
Penn from whats going on. I wonder why?

Finally, Sunday morning, I called the San Francisco Chronicle.

If your father had a career in law enforcement, and you had what you thought
was significant information about a high profile case, wouldnt your reflex be
to contact the police first? Wouldnt contacting a big city newspaper tend to
make it look as if you were just seeking publicity? In other words, wouldnt
calling the newspaper at that stage be counterproductive?

Monday morning, I showed up at the Hall of Justice in Napa.

If Gareth were not going to take his discovery to the Attorney Generals
Office, the next most-likely place to go would have been SFPD, a big city
police agency. Instead, he visits the Napa Sheriffs Office, which is
sufficiently backward technologically that David Finchers movie Zodiac has the
Bill Armstrong character offering to fax what information SFPD has, and Ken
Narlow telling him that they dont have a fax machine.

We talked about the Zodiac for about three hours . . .

He chooses Napa instead of SFPD because a smaller agency figures to be less
sophisticated, and his own comfort level will be higher. As the FBI has pointed
out in their profiling, serial killers tend to strike first in familiar
territory, where they feel the most comfortable. This would also apply to a
publicity agent for a serial killer who has to weather the storm of suspicion
he will face when he first comes forward.

Remember: Gareth SAYS he called SFPD first that Friday night, but we have no
way of knowing that for sure.  That's the advantage of talking to a desk
sergeant instead of the Homicide Detail; there'd be no follow-up on the call,
assuming he made it in the first place.

The following Friday morning, Gareth talked to Ken Narlow again, this time in
the presence of several other Zodiac investigators. When it became clear that
Gareth himself was under suspicion, he did his best to talk his way out of it.

I became a Zodiac suspect because I had shown up in Ken Narlos office in
possession of knowledge which I wast supposed to have. Not only did I know
about the radian hint, which I adequately explained by reference to my fathes
part in it . . .

In other words, Gareth had talked about the Zodiac with Ken Narlow for three
hours the previous Monday, and the topic of his father, Hugh Penn, who worked
for both the California Highway Patrol and the Attorney General's Office, and
who was the source of his information, never came up. Does this make sense to
anyone? It only makes sense if you assume Gareth WANTED to be a suspect, and
wanted Ken Narlow to go through the motions of clearing him so he would
subsequently be free to disseminate his information without further suspicion.

I can hear the reader muttering to himself, Well, Gareth couldnt expect his
dad to divulge specific information about a letter that hadnt been released to
the public.

Maybe not. But Gareths dad DID divulge something a lot more sensitive: the
actual symbols of The Cryptogram as they were sent by the killer.



Granted, Gareth never mentions where he got the symbols (another example of
disconnect), but Im assuming he didnt get them from Ken Narlow. The only
employee of a police (actually prosecutorial) agency likely to give him that
information was Hugh Penn.

I say the same thing about Gareth Penn that Ive been saying about Michael
OHare: at what point does his behavior become so bizarre that a Zodiac
hobbyist begins questioning it?

In the early 1990s, I asked Captain Roy Conway of Vallejo PD point-blank if The
Mt. Diablo Letter included a second page with the suggestion Gareth mentions.
His answer, after a moment's pause, was Yes, which is why I quoted Gareths
version of the letter in my books . . . but I now suspect Roy Conway
misunderstood my question. He may have thought I meant the Phillips 66 map
page.

SFPD has passed around those letters for decades. Some of them have found their
way to the homes of police administrators. Is it conceivable that a single page
from a letter sent in June 1970 would still be kept secret when everything else
has been made public?



If SFPD really took the radian angle seriously, and had kept Page 2 secret for
that reason, would they have released the last page of The Mikado Letter? If
police agencies really took the radian angle seriously, wouldn't they have
immediately ushered Gareth Penn into an interrogation room as soon as he walked
in, instead of giving him the bum's rush out the door?

It's 2012, and a single page from a Zodiac letter hasn't been published, but
the contents of that page have been made public, something the police would
have known about since late 1980. Police would also have known who the leak
was--Hugh Penn. Hugh Penn was also presumably the source for the original
version of The Cryptogram to be found in Times 17, presented here with the
deviations from the versions published in the newspapers:



One would think that, if police agencies were going to object to the
publication of anything, they'd have objected to the original version of The
Cryptogram being published. After all, we have no way of knowing how seriously
they took the radian clue, except for Ken Narlow's poker-faced reaction to it
when Gareth Penn showed it to him. But we know the police took The Cryptogram
seriously, since they went to the trouble of even checking out Donald Harden
when he came forward with a solution to the revised Cryptogram.

It's possible that an unpublished page from a Zodiac letter has somehow slipped
through the cracks, but it seems more likely that, in 1980, Gareth Penn and his
cohorts decided that merely citing the PS in a follow-up letter wasn't going to
be convincing enough to the average person. The hint about placing the radian
had to be there in the same letter with the Phillips 66 map and code, and the
hint had to actually suggest placing a radian on Mt. Diablo instead of just
saying that the code itself concerns radians.

He must have decided that the radian PS was too far removed from The Mt. Diablo
Letter for readers to make the connection, so he fabricated the part about
something interesting in a second page, covering himself by filtering the
information through his father.

Citations Without Sources

Gareth mentions becoming a Zodiac suspect because he showed up in possession of
knowledge he wasnt supposed to have.

If you look at the two most important insights he makes in Times 17, both are
based on information he couldn't have gotten, since it doesn't exist.


1. Police would findsomething interestin if they placed a radian on Mt.
Diablo.

There is no second page of text in The Mt. Diablo Letter.


2. A directory at the Napa City and County Library names Michael Hare.

There is no directory at that library that mentions Michael OHare.


Lets look at page 31 of Times 17:



I went to the Napa City and County Library and consulted their reference
section for biographical dictionaries of artists.

Note the disconnect: Gareth had worked for seven years as a reference librarian
(so says the first sentence on the page), but he never cites a specific
biographical dictionary.

I went through the s first . . . then I tried the Irish names in H-.

Maybe he means he was checking ALL the biographical dictionaries there. If so,
he never tells us which SPECIFIC dictionary he finds the Berta Margoulies
reference in.

Professional academics and degreed librarians normally cite books by giving a
title, author, year of publication, and publishing house.

Note that Gareth doesn't even supply a title.

He was either out to lunch at the most critical moment in his book . . . or
he's smirking at us.



The Atlas Peak Fire

On page 48 of Times 17, Gareth Penn finally mentions another specific date when
an event in his book takes place.  On June 22, 1981, an unknown arsonist
started a massive forest fire in Napa, California, an event that became known
as The Atlas Peak Fire.

Note Gareth's detailed description of the fire itself:

Some time later, it came out in the newspaper stories that the fire of 22 June
1981, which destroyed sixty homes and blackened some 25,000 acres of forest and
chaparral, was started by an unknown arsonist who planted a string of bombs
alongside the access road to Rector Reservoir.  There were nine bombs, all
containing timers.  The timers had been set to go off at 1:30pm.  I didn't know
yet about the Bus Bomb Diagram; I was not even to lay eyes on it until nine
months later.  But I knew who had set the fire anyway.

In this particular case, I have an edge on every other Zodiac researcher; as
far as I know, I'm the only one who discussed The Atlas Peak Fire with the
official state investigator, Darrell Bressler, in 1990.

For many Napa Valley residents the massive out-of-control wildland fire brings
back memories of the June 1981 Atlas Peak fire, which blackened 23,000 acres
and destroyed about 60 homes, Streblow said. Although there were several
injuries, no lives were lost in that fire.

Mr. Bressler was surprised that I believed The Atlas Peak Fire was started by
the Zodiac killer.  What struck Bressler most about the blaze was the strategic
way in which the fire was SET, taking into account the probable movements of
the firefighters.  Here's a passage from an online paper about that fire:

But the arsonist also had a clever master plan. It seems that the Silverado
Trail fires were intended to lure the fire fighting resources away from the
fires he was yet to start in the areas of Soda Canyon and Atlas Peak, near
Silverado Country Club. Unfortunately, he was very successful with those fires.
The fires started on June 22nd, 1981 burned 23,600 acres and 65 structures. The
fires blackened a path over 10 miles long - all the way from the Silverado
Country Club to the ridge above Pina Cellars.

I originally read Times 17 in 1987.  I'm sure I was one of the book's first
handful of readers.  But I didn't talk to Darrell Bressler until 1990.  So what
Gareth said about how the blaze was started, I took at face value.

[The fire]was started by an unknown arsonist who planted a string of bombs
alongside the access road to Rector Reservoir.  There were nine bombs, all
containing timers.  The timers had been set to go off at 1:30pm.  I didn't know
yet about the Bus Bomb Diagram



Gareth's version of events suggested that the same sort of device depicted in
the Zodiac's Bus Bomb Diagram of November 9, 1969, or in The 13-Character
Cipher Letter of April 20, 1970, perhaps in miniature, was used to ignite The
Atlas Peak Fire.



There's only one problem with his observation.  As Darrell Bressler pointed out
to me 22 years ago, The Atlas Peak Fire WASN'T started by a string of
mechanical bombs containing timers.

The Atlas Peak Fire was started by an arsonist or arsonists using a very simple
device.

Darrell was loath to describe the actual device used, for obvious reasons, but
what he meant was something along the lines of a packet of matchbooks with a
cigarette as the fuse.

Cigarette Fuse

So . . . where did Gareth get his information about mechanical bombs, when the
head investigator for The Atlas Peak Fire says otherwise?  I had several pages
of illustrations for The Atlas Peak Fire in my physical book from 1990, one
article from The New York Times, none of which mentioned mechanical bombs
starting the fire.

How could Gareth Penn--how could ANYONE--make a mistake of that magnitude?  How
could you suggest such a complex explanation for something when you cite no
source for the information, and when the state investigator says there WERE no
bombs?

I know what Mike Butterfield's going to say about this.  How DARE Ray Grant
question Mike's former mentor Gareth Penn?

Well, Mike, I'm just pointing out a pattern here:

We're 48 pages into Times 17, and Gareth Penn has already dropped THREE
bombshells:


1. "Something interesting" would be found if a radian were placed on Mt.
Diablo.

2. Michael O'Hare's name was found in a biographical directory including his
mother.

3. Nine mechanical bombs containing timers ignited The Atlas Peak Fire.


Those bombshells are breathtaking; but when you check the original sources, you
find that:


1. Gareth cites a 2nd page of text in The Mt. Diablo Letter, when there IS no
2nd page of text.

2. Gareth cites a book at The Napa City & County Library, when there IS no such
book.

3. Gareth cites bombs w/timers igniting The Atlas Peak Fire, when no such
devices were found.


So let me ask my pet question again:

At what point does Gareth Penn's behavior (and Michael O'Hare's behavior, for
that matter) become so BIZARRE that a Zodiac hobbyist will actually begin to
question it?

Here are some opinions along those lines, voiced a decade before Ray Grant went
online:

Penn/O'Hare 

Note that I'm only 48 pages into the text, and Times 17 is 380 pages long . . .


As the reader may have noticed, I've consolidated articles on this site to make
it simpler for me to add material.  Doing that has made the articles themselves
a bit more difficult to scroll through, but I think serious readers would
rather see more content, even if it makes the site clunkier.  One downside of
this approach is that I will be adding material to articles that have already
been posted, so it's up to the reader to check back later for updates.

In other words: TO BE CONTINUED . . .

Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** 340 ******

340 1

The Pen Card, not coincidentally, contains the Zodiac killers most notoriously
cryptic message, The 340-Character Cipher.

    Sorry I havet written but I just washed my pen . . .
    . . . and i cat do a thing with it!

The enemy of writing done with a fountain pen is water, which will tend to
erase whatever message was written, leaving only the barest outline.  The
suggestion implicit in the card is that hes written something and purposely
washed out the message.  Its almost as if the Zodiac killer is telling us that
we wont be able to solve this one, that he made sure the message was written
in invisible ink.

    This is the Zodiac speaking
    I though you would nead a
    good laugh before you
    hear the bad news
    you wot get the
    news for a while yet

You wont get the news for a while because you wont be able to solve The 340. 
The bad news, by the way, is that hes picking his victims by name.

Thats why all attempts to solve The 340 have failed.
Its not a statement.  Its a list.

This is also the point of using a commercial greeting card.  A commercial
message is one that we have to watch if were going to be able to see the rest
of the show.  So the commercial greeting card is a hint that the Zodiac killer
is telling us something not so much to entertain us as to get his own message
outhis own advertisement, as it were.

The 340-Character Cipher is a message he doesnt want us to solve.
But hes putting it out there to prove a point.

Hes picking his victims in advanceby name.


340 2

Remember, Ive been saying all along that the Zodiac killer chose his victims,
at least nominally, in advance.  I didnt say just how FAR in advance, but the
answer to that is, in at least one case Im about to demonstrate, 12 years and
20 days.

And thats just figuring from the date The 340 was mailed.
Obviously, he chose all his victims from the outset.

This assumption makes further sense considering the Zodiac killers Mikado
Letter of July 25, 1970, where he paraphrased the patter-song from Gilbert &
Sullivans Mikado with its refrain, sung by Ko-Ko, The Lord High Executioner:

    As some day it may happen that a victim must be found,
    I've got a little list I've got a little list

Note, by the way, that little list is another acrostic of LL, which stands
for 1-22.  I dont see how the Zodiac killer could make a more blatant
reference to what he was doing in The 340-Character Cipher than to quote that
song.

And it also makes sense that if he had a list, hed show it to us.

You can solve a coded statement because it will have words youre looking for. 
The Hardens looked for the word KILL in The Cryptogram and found it all over
the place.

But you cant solve a coded list unless you know what names are included.

I dont know that the Zodiac killer picked specific individuals in advance.
I do know that he intended to kill victims who had specific names.

This is what The Terminator robot does in the original movie.  He knows hes
after a woman named Sarah Connor, and he knows she lives in LA.  So he goes
to LA, finds every Sarah Connor in the phone book, and goes to each listed
residence and kills that Sarah Connor.
Sooner or later, hes going to get the right one.

Thats basically what the Zodiac killer was doing, and The 340 proves it.

The 340 is a list of the names of Zodiac victims.


340 3

Lets start with basic assumptions.  I said, in Chapter G, that the 18 letters
at the end of The Cryptogram are a blatant indication that The Cryptogram is a
two-step cipher.

The same is also true of The 340.
In fact, all four Zodiac ciphers are two-step ciphers.
Not only that, all four Zodiac ciphers use the same symbol values.

Thats right.  Its one of the great cryptographic punchlines of all time, but
all four Zodiac ciphers are meant to be solved using the same character-values,
even though doing that doesnt seem to lead to a solution.

In his This Is The Zodiac Speaking Letter of August 4, 1969, the Zodiac
killer is curious about one thing:

    By the way, are the police
    having a good time with the
    code?  If not, tell them to cheer
    up; when they do crack it
    they will have me.

Essentially, the Zodiac killer is telling police that hes using the same
symbol-values for all his ciphers, because he refers to his handiwork as a
code.  Remember, a cipher is an individually-encrypted document.  A code is a
general mode of encipherment (like alphabet numbers).

 Thus, we need to take a second look at The Cryptogram symbol-values, as
applied to The 340.


Cryptogram Values

        1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9      10     
11      12      13      14      15      16     17
  1    T      E     G      -      E      A     N      B      I        I        
-          -       T       O        A         -      O
  2    E      E     E      L     N      L     N       L     N       E      
U          -        -        -        S        D      H
  3    L       -      -       V     H     E      I       E     A       E      
N         H        T       L       D        T       F
  4    A      E     E       I      N     A      ?      -      B        -      
E         N        E      E       G        S       -  
  5    Y      I      H      E      D     R     X     O      -        T      
S         I         E       I         -         I       K
  6    E      ?     G     N      S     A      N      -       -       O       -
         I         S       -        -         N      N
  7    L      T     E      S      M     L      -       -       I        V     
O        A         B       -        D        T      -  
  8    N     A     -        F      D     X     L      N      E       Y     
E        U         D      E        S        T      I
  9    O      -    H       E       -     E     E      G      -        S     
L        V          -       W       E        -      S
10     -      D    A       I       B     E     N      F     E        N    
E        ?           -       S        L        -       -   11     I      E   
G      K       T     R    E       -      N        U     L        E           -
       O       H       S     N
12     -       -    V      A       G     F     -       -      T         O    
T      H            -       E        I        L     S
13    D     E     I       A       -       L    E     E       -          T    
S       L           V      N        -       ?     G
14    A     A     S     E       N      D    T      -       -           -      -
       V           B      T        R      E     E
15    -      L     O     -        -        -     -       I       -         
E      -       B           I        E       T       -      E
16    -      V     -      -       D       L    S      N     N          E    
N       -           D       H      M      A      -
17   G     V    O     E       T       -     N      -      -           E    
S       A           E        L      -       H     T
18   E     E    H     E       -        D    E      V     I           N    
A       T           O       K      N      H     E
19    -     S     I     O       E        -     I       R     L          Y    
U      N            L        -       -        -     V
20    -     H    N     T       E       E     I       A     D         E     N   
   ?           W        -       S       -     E

Again, all Ive done here is assume the symbols used in The 340 stand for the
same letters they stand for in The Cryptogram.  The ? in the grid stands for
the symbol in The Cryptogram that stood for either A or S, whichever made sense
in the statement.  Since theres no statement coming out of The 340, well
never know which letter was intended.

The dashes stand for new symbols which were not part of The Cryptogram.

Note that it may still be possible, given the content of The 340 (though we
know its not a statement), to figure out what those new symbols mean.

Logically, to be able to do this, wed have to recognize parts of the solution.
Let me give an example of this idea, using my own name:

    AYMOND GRAN

If you know theres a list of names there, and you see this much of my name,
you would assume the initial R and the final T, right?


Two Passages


       1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9      10     
11      12      13      14      15      16     17
  1    T      E     G      -      E      A     N      B      I        I        
-          -       T       O        A         -      O
  2    E      E     E      L     N      L     N       L     N       E      
U          -        -        -        S        D      H
  3    L       -      -       V     H     E      I       E     A       E      
N         H        T       L       D        T       F
  4    A      E     E       I      N     A      ?      -      B        -      
E         N        E      E       G        S       -  
  5    Y      I      H      E      D     R     X     O      -        T      
S         I         E       I         -         I       K
  6    E      ?     G     N      S     A      N      -       -       O       -
         I         S       -        -         N      N
  7    L      T     E      S      M     L      -       -       I        V     
O        A         B       -        D        T      -  
  8    N     A     -        F      D     X     L      N      E       Y     
E        U         D      E        S        T      I
  9    O      -    H       E       -     E     E      G      -        S     
L        V          -       W       E        -      S
10     -      D    A       I       B     E     N      F     E        N    
E        ?           -       S        L        -       -   11     I      E   
G      K       T     R    E       -      N        U     L        E           -
       O       H       S     N
12     -       -    V      A       G     F     -       -      T         O    
T      H            -       E        I        L     S
13    D     E     I       A       -       L    E     E       -          T    
S       L           V      N        -       ?     G
14    A     A     S     E       N      D    T      -       -           -      -
       V           B      T        R      E     E
15    -      L     O     -        -        -     -       I       -         
E      -       B           I        E       T       -      E
16    -      V     -      -       D       L    S      N     N          E    
N       -           D       H      M      A      -
17   G     V    O     E       T       -     N      -      -           E    
S       A           E        L      -       H     T
18   E     E    H     E       -        D    E      V     I           N    
A       T           O       K      N      H     E
19    -     S     I     O       E        -     I       R     L          Y    
U      N            L        -       -        -     V
20    -     H    N     T       E       E     I       A     D         E     N   
   ?           W        -       S       -     E


The Zodiac ciphers are less about cryptography and more about decoder-ring
types of secret writing, but any analysis of The 340 is going to seem pretty
dense to the public, so Im going to limit my discussion here to two passages.

In Row 10, Columns 2-12, we find DAIBENFENE(?).

In Row 18, Columns 6-17, we find DEVINATOKN.

Both these expressions contain the names of Zodiac victims.

Ill begin with DAIBENFENE(?).



DAIBENFENE(?)


       1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9      10     
11      12      13      14      15      16     17
  1    T      E     G      -      E      A     N      B      I        I        
-          -       T       O        A         -      O
  2    E      E     E      L     N      L     N       L     N       E      
U          -        -        -        S        D      H
  3    L       -      -       V     H     E      I       E     A       E      
N         H        T       L       D        T       F
  4    A      E     E       I      N     A      ?      -      B        -      
E         N        E      E       G        S       -  
  5    Y      I      H      E      D     R     X     O      -        T      
S         I         E       I         -         I       K
  6    E      ?     G     N      S     A      N      -       -       O       -
         I         S       -        -         N      N
  7    L      T     E      S      M     L      -       -       I        V     
O        A         B       -        D        T      -  
  8    N     A     -        F      D     X     L      N      E       Y     
E        U         D      E        S        T      I
  9    O      -    H       E       -     E     E      G      -        S     
L        V          -       W       E        -      S
10     -      D    A       I       B     E     N      F     E        N    
E        ?

Lets convert DAIBENFENE(?) to Morse/binary:

D        A      I         B      E     N       F       E     N    E    ?
100    01    00    1000    0    10    0010    0    10    0    0-

This 23-digit expression converts to an overlapping form of the Vallejo
drivers names, like so:

D        A      I         B      E     N       F       E     N    E    ?
100    01    00    1000    0    10    0010    0    10    0    0-

            10001001000010                   001001000

(100 0)-1   0001 00  100   0010         001001000
   D       A      V      I    D        F

This tells you that the symbol in Row 10, Column 1 (-) stands for B (1000).

1000     10001001000010                   001001000
  B

1000     10001001000010001001000
                
1000     1000100  1000010001001000

1000     1000100  100 0010 0 010 010 00(10)
                               D      F   E   R    R    I   N

This also tells you that the dotted triangle (Row 10, Column 12) stands for A
and not S, and is followed by a letter leading with a Morse dot.

               DAVID   F
                       D   FERRIN

The linked Vallejo victims are linked in The 340.  Keep in mind that this form
is particularly appropriate because Darlene Ferrins nickname was Dee.

Both forms use the part of the names that contain the word EASTER.



Linking Form


              DAVID   F
                       D   FERRIN

Why would the Zodiac killer put the names of two victims he had already killed
in The 340?

After all, David Faraday died on December 20, 1968.
And Darlene Ferrin died July 5, 1969.

The 340 was sent to The San Francisco Chronicle on November 8, 1969.

If the Zodiac killer is trying to scoop the world by announcing murders that
he hasnt yet committed, why mention these two at all?

First, because if he doesn't use the names of victims that are already familiar
to us, we won't recognize that The 340 is a list of victims.  So he has to
include past victims on the list.

Second, because he has to give us a key to deciphering the unknown symbol-
values, and we can only do that if we can look at the names like a crossword
puzzle and figure out missing letters from what's already there.  I know some
readers are going to object to my assuming the first 1 1/2 letters of DAVID's
name, and the last letter of FERRIN, in this linking form, but it's the
cryptographic equivalent of hinting at the solution, and there's no way around
it.
  
Plus, he doesnt know that weve already linked the Vallejo drivers.

Obviously, this book didnt exist in November 1969.  And, by the time of The
Pen Card, no one (and certainly not the police or newspapers) had noticed that
David Faraday and Darlene Ferrin had the same initials, and that their initials
were a clue as to the theme of the Zodiacs murders.

And hes showing us, in this linking form, that they ARE connected.

Remember what the Zodiac killer says in Riverside:

BATES HAD TO DIE
THERE WILL BE MORE

Cheri Bates had to die because her name means Virgin Death.  When the Zodiac
killer says THERE WILL BE MORE, he doesnt just mean there will be more
victims.  He means, There will be more victims whose names mark them for death,
and who, therefore, have to die.


DEVINATOKN


       1      2      3      4      5      6      7      8      9      10     
11      12      13      14      15      16     17
10     -      D    A       I       B     E     N      F     E        N    
E        ?           -       S        L        -       -   11     I      E   
G      K       T     R    E       -      N        U     L        E           -
       O       H       S     N
12     -       -    V      A       G     F     -       -      T         O    
T      H            -       E        I        L     S
13    D     E     I       A       -       L    E     E       -          T    
S       L           V      N        -       ?     G
14    A     A     S     E       N      D    T      -       -           -      -
       V           B      T        R      E     E
15    -      L     O     -        -        -     -       I       -         
E      -       B           I        E       T       -      E
16    -      V     -      -       D       L    S      N     N          E    
N       -           D       H      M      A      -
17   G     V    O     E       T       -     N      -      -           E    
S       A           E        L      -       H     T
18   E     E    H     E       -        D    E      V     I           N    
A       T           O       K      N      H     E
19    -     S     I     O       E        -     I       R     L          Y    
U      N            L        -       -        -     V
20    -     H    N     T       E       E     I       A     D         E     N   
   ?           W        -       S       -     E  

Now lets look at Passage #2.

In Row 18, Columns 6-15, we find DEVINATOKN.

     D     E       V      I     N    A      T    O      K    N
    100   0    0001  00  10   01     1   111   101  10

Note that, once again, we have a 23-digit string.  With the DAIBENFENE sequence
on Line 10, we thus have two 23-digit strings representing the names of Zodiac
victimsanother form of 2/23.  How does this sequence convert to Joan Websters
name?

    D     E       V      I     N    A      T    O      K    N
    100   0    0001  00  10   01     1   111   101  10

    10000001001001    111110110    00000

(011 0)  1000 000 1  0 010     0111 111 01 10
 W  E     B      S  T  E   R          J    O   A  N

Again, he leaves off the leading letters W-E so that we know what the preceding
symbol stands forin this case, the letter P.


BSTER, JOAN

Keep in mind that we started with a passage in Row 18, consisting of The
Cryptogram values for the symbols in The 340.

    D     E       V      I     N    A      T    O      K    N
    100   0    0001  00  10   01     1   111   101  10

Those 23 digits convert to the name WEBSTER, JOAN, save for the first two
letters.

(011 0)  1000 000 1  0 010     0111 111 01 10
 W  E     B      S  T  E   R          J    O   A  N


Im sure the reader is saying, Wait--why would he do it THAT way?

Because if he just spells out her name from front to back . . .

        J    O   A   N      W  E   B     S   T E  R
    0111 111 01 10    011 0 1000 000 1 0 010

 . . . the first letter of the second step (The Cryptogram values) would have
to remain J, because its a four-digit letter.  By leading with her last
name, he can use a four-digit letter that converts to a 3- (W) and a 1-digit
(E) letter.

    P
    0110

    011   0
    W     E

This may seem trivial, but cryptographically, its significant.

The 5th symbol of Row 18 of The 340 is C.  If that converts to P, and all
the ciphers use the same code, then The 32-Character Cipher (June 26, 1970)
leads off with the letters P-I.

The Zodiac killer says, in that letter, that the map coupled with The 32-
Character Cipher will tell people where the bomb is set.  Since the map
itself refers to The Mt. Diablo Radian, and a radian is a circle divided by
2pi, a code whose solution begins with P-I would seem to suggest were on the
right track.



Galileo

Gareth Penn mentions, in Times 17, that Galileo would publish his astronomical
discoveries in code, using anagrams, so that he could stake his claim to them
while he was waiting for observational proof.  In other words, one doesnt
always publish codes because he wants those codes to be solved.  Sometimes
people put out coded material in order to be able to prove something later on.

Joan Websters name is in The 340-Character Cipher.  The 340 was sent to The
San Francisco Chronicle on November 8, 1969.  Joan Webster would not be
abducted and murdered until November 28, 1981, in Boston, 12 years and 20 days
later.

Note that both DAIBENFENE and DEVINATOKN are 23-digit strings.

The presence of the two suggests the expression 2/23.

In previous editions of this book, Ive called The 340 a list of victims: past,
present, and future.  And its true that you can find forms of the names of
other victims inside The 340.  But those occurrences may have been
cryptographically unavoidable.

Because the appearance of two 23-digit strings strongly hints that those are
the ONLY important bits of information to be found inside the cipher.  So its
quite possible that DAVID F, D FERRIN, and WEBSTER, JOAN are the only names
intentionally present in The 340.

That would take the idea of a Little List about as far as you could take it.


Killed 7 People

The Zodiac killer says, in the next letter, mailed November 9, 1969, that

    up to the end of Oct I have
    killed 7 people.


Note that, if you go by my count, this is literally true.  By midnight on the
31st October, 1969, the Zodiac killer had killed seven:


    1. Cheri Bates                    (October 30, 1966)

    2. David Faraday               (December 20, 1968)

    3. Betty Lou Jensen           (December 20, 1968)

    4. Darlene Ferrin                (July 4/5, 1969)

    5. Cecelia Ann Shepard     (September 29, 1969)

    6. Paul Stine                       (October 11, 1969)

    7. Shelly Holmboe             (October 19, 1969)


As lawyers like to say, Asked and Answered.

Lets look at something else he says in the November 9, 1969 letter.



Entirle Different

The Zodiac killer also says,

     I look like the description
     passed out only when I do
     my thing, the rest of the time
     I look entirle different.  I
     shall not tell you what my
     descise consists of when I kill

In one of my favorite mystery novels, The 39 Steps, John Buchan writes

    A fool tries to look different.
    A clever man looks the same and is different.

Im sure Michael OHare didnt look any different when he was killing people
than he looks when hes lecturing on public policy.  Maybe he was more casually
dressed, but thats about it.

The Zodiac killer spends part of this letter laughing at SFPD for failing to
spot him on Jackson Street, but as Donald Fouke has pointed out, the crime took
place in "an affluent neighborhood".

In fact, Professor Michael OHare must have looked like he belonged there.



Signature Phrase

Okay, The 340s a hard one.  So heres an easy one:

Whats the Zodiac killers signature phrase?

If you ask most Zodiologists, theyd be happy to tell you:

    This is the Zodiac speaking.

After all, the Zodiac killer says This is the Zodiac speaking. eleven times:

     1. The This Is The Zodiac Speaking Letter         August 4, 1969
     2. The School Bus Threat Letter                            October 13,1969
     3. The Oakland PD Phone Call                             October 22, 1969
     4. The Pen Card                                                   
November 8, 1969
     5. The Bus Bomb Diagram Letter                         November 9, 1969
     6. The Dear Melvin Letter                                     December 20,
1969
     7. The 13-Character Cipher Letter                         April 20, 1970
     8. The Mt. Diablo Letter                                        June 26,
1970
     9. The Kidnapping Confirmation Letter                July 24, 1970
   10. The Mikado Letter                                             July 25,
1970
   11. The LA Times Letter                                        March 15,
1971

Thats a lot.  But he says something else even more often.


Please Rush To Editor

The Zodiac killer says one phrase more often than . . .

    This is the Zodiac speaking.

 . . . which he says 11 times.

He says . . .

    Please Rush To Editor

 . . . at least 14 times.

Lets count them:

     The Cryptogram Envelope (Vallejo Times-Herald) 7/31/69        2 times
     The Cryptogram Envelope (SF Examiner) 7/31/69                    2 times
     The Cryptogram Envelope (SF Chronicle) 7/31/69                    2 times
     The School Bus Threat 10/13/
69                                               2 times
     The Pen Card 11/8/
69                                                                2 times
     The Bus Bomb Diagram Letter 11/9/69                                      2
times

     The LA Times Letter 3/15/
71                                                       Once
     The Exorcist Letter 1/29/
74                                                      + Once
                                                                                                  
= 14 times

He may also have used the phrase on The This Is The Zodiac Speaking Letter
envelope of August 4, 1969, but no photos of that have been published.  In any
case, its fair to say that

    Please Rush To Editor

 . . . is really the Zodiac killers signature phrase.

Since we know that the Zodiac killer packs every utterance with information, we
can be sure that

    Please Rush To Editor

 . . . is perhaps the most significant Zodiac statement of all.


Significant Information

If you wanted to impart the most significant identifying information about
yourself that you possibly could, what would that be?

Ive mentioned that the Zodiac killer harps on his date of birth (January 22,
1943), but there are still lots of people that that would include.  Two people
born on the same day are said to be Exact Contemporaries.  Perhaps the most
amazing coincidence involving exact contemporaries involved the actors Meredith
Baxter Birney and Michael Gross, who were the leads on the NBC sit-com Family
Ties, and were also born on the same day, June 21, 1947.  My own exact
contemporaries (for April 29, 1951) include Rick Burleson, the Red Sox
shortstop, and the late Nascar superstar Dale Earnhardt.

What about DNA?  Even if you had the Zodiac killers DNA (which I believe he
left at the Cheri Bates murder sitehair was found stuck by blood to the
victims palms) and someone to compare it to, that wouldnt necessarily narrow
it down to one person, because the suspect could have an identical twin who
would have the same DNA.

Theres only one piece of information that identifies a person, to the
exclusion of everyone else.

His social security number.

I work for the federal government, and thats what the United States of America
uses to differentiate between its employees.

Since Im saying that Michael OHare is the Zodiac killer, and we know that his
social security number is . . .

    117-32-2128

 . . . and the Zodiac killers signature phrase is . . .

    Please Rush To Editor (almost always said twice)

 . . . I must, then, in mathematical terms, be saying that . . .

    117-32-2128    =     Please Rush To Editor (x2)

That may not seem possible.  But thats exactly what Im saying.

The Zodiac killer uses the phrase PLEASE RUSH TO EDITOR so many times because
it specifically identifies him.  Its his social security number.


Please Rush


   117-32-2128    =     Please Rush To Editor (x2)

Okay, lets start the translation.  But first, keep in mind that the Zodiac
killer uses the phrase twice on the envelopes of his first six Bay Area letters
(not counting August 1969 which we have no photo of).  So lets modify the
equation to reflect that.

   117-32-2128    =     Please Rush To Editor
                                  Please Rush To Editor

Again, we always start conversions from letter-to-number by using alphabet
numbers, so well do that here.

      P      L     E    A    S     E                      R    U      S     H
     16 + 12 + 5 + 1 + 19 + 5 = 58             18 + 21 + 19 + 8 = 66

      T      O                                                  E    D    I    
T      O     R
     20 + 15 = 35                                          5 + 4 + 9 + 20 + 15
+ 18 = 71

To repeat, the alphabet values for the phrase are

    Please (58) Rush (66) To (35) Editor (71)

Since the phrase is repeated twice, that would seem to indicate we should
double the number values, right?  Lets start by doubling the first two words.

    117-32-2128     =    Please (58) Rush (66)
                                  Please (58) Rush (66)
                                  
                                             5866
                                           +5866
                                            11732

Were already 5 digits into the 9-digit SSN, and weve got a match so far!

That would seem to indicate were on the right track.


To Editor

So far, so good.  Weve converted the first half of the phrase PLEASE RUSH TO
EDITOR, the words PLEASE RUSH, to the first five digits of Michael OHares
SSN.

   117-32-2128     =    Please (58) Rush (66)
                                  Please (58) Rush (66)
                                  
                                             5866
                                           +5866
                                            11732


Heres where it gets tricky.  To do exactly the same thing with the remainder
of the SSN, we would need somehow to convert half of 2128 (since we have to
double the phrase to get the result) to letters, and thats not practical here.

    2128 ? 2 =     1064

                          10    64

To convert a word or letter to the number 10, we would have to use the letter
J, or some combination that adds up to ten.

    Please Rush J
    Please Rush Aha!

Aha!  Well, you get the idea.
And youd still have to find a fourth word equal to 64.
Instead of doing that, he simply has us add the last two word values.

    117-32-2128     =    Please Rush (11732) To (35) Editor (71)

                                                                            
35       +      71 = 106
           
                                                                                                     
+106
                                                                                                       
212

    117-32-2128    =                           
11732                                     212    (8)

Ill admit theres really no 8 on the end, but the right side is 8 digits, so
that number may suggest itself.  In any case, with eight digits of a SSN, hes
narrowed down the list of possible suspects to twenty people, at most.



2 Editor

Ive said that the principle design element of The Zodiac Project is symmetry. 
He always, or nearly always, provides at least two ways that a result can be
arrived at.  So, if you dont like the idea of adding those last two words
together and then doubling them to get the next three numbers of his SSN (212),
try this.

    117-32-2128     =    Please Rush (11732) To Editor

First, read the word TO simply as a dash or a colon.

                                   Please Rush (11732)  -  Editor

Then, read the word EDITOR in Morse/binary instead of alphabet numbers.

                                                                         E  
D    I  T   O   R
                                                                         0 100
00 1 111 010 = 2170

Since both sides of the equation (binary and base-ten) have trailing zeroes,
drop them on each side.  Theres no logic to this, of course, but Gareth Penn
makes such a point about trailing zeroes in binary not being significant,
because theyre just two-multipliers, I can almost justify this with a straight
face.  Now you have

                                    Please Rush (11732)  - E  D    I  T   O   
R
                                                                           0
100 00 1 111 010 = 2170

                                   Please Rush (11732)  - EDITOR
                                                                          217

Now read 217 as 21, 7.

                                 Please Rush (11732)  - EDITOR
                                                                          21,7

In other words, its 2 to the 1st power, followed by 2 to the 7th power.
Thats 2, and then 128, or 2128.

                                 Please Rush (11732)  - EDITOR
                                                                          2128


    117-32-2128    =   Please Rush  (11732)  Editor (2128)

Ill freely admit weve left algebraic reasoning behind us, far behind us.  But
you can get to the last four digits this way, and its not dissimilar to
fudging the Zodiac killer has done elsewhere. 

There are at least two ways to arrive at Michael OHares SSN, starting with
PLEASE RUSH TO EDITOR.  But could it just be a coincidence?

That you can take the Zodiac killer's signature phrase, doubled on the
envelopes of six of his earliest letters, and double the alphabet numbers for
the first two words, and thereby get the first five digits of Michael O'Hare's
SSN . . . no, I don't think that's a coincidence.



Dear Melvin

Robert Graysmith almost gets it right in the Zodiac movie.  The Dear Melvin
Letter (December 20, 1969) gives us the Zodiac killers birth date.  Hes just
wrong about the date itself.

First, the Zodiac killer calls attention to the date by mailing a letter
exactly one year following The Lake Herman Road murders.  On the car door at
Lake Berryessa, he suggests reading dates as linear expressions, so well do
that here.

    December 20, 1968

    12    20    68

Note that the first three numbers are a version of January 22nd.

    122

The last two numbers are a self-identifier.  The statement is meant to read,
122 (am) I.

Note, first, that I is the 9th letter of the alphabet.  So well apply Morse/
binary numbers to NINE and see what we get.

            N  I  N E
           10 00 10 0 = 68

    122            0        68

"January 22nd (am)  I."


December 26, 1980

As long as were discussing 12-20-68, note that Gareth Penn claims to have
discovered the Zodiacs radian on the evening of December 26, 1980.

Although his first murder is in Riverside, the killers public identity as The
Zodiac begins on December 20, 1968 with The Lake Herman Road murders.  In like
manner, Gareth Penns career as a public accuser of Michael OHare as the
Zodiac begins on December 26, 1980.

Note that those two dates consist of the same numbers.

    December 20, 1968        December 26, 1980

    12-20-68                          12-26-80

    122068                             122680

Odd, isnt it?  The only difference between the two sequences is the placement
of the zero.  Its almost as if Gareth were presenting himself as another
manifestation of the Zodiac killer, taking a slightly different form!  I will
cite other examples of his doing this when we come to them.



November December Review

Again, were reviewing three Zodiac killer eventsThe Pen Card (11-8-69), The
Bus Bomb Diagram Letter (11-9-69), and The Dear Melvin Letter (12-20-69).

    1. THING and ZODIAC are both 58 in alphabet numbers.

    2. The variousscorecard are not necessarily victim counts.

    3. Still, the "months" list adds up to 7 because there were 7 victims by
that time.

    4. The listedmonth on The Pen Card add up to 223.

    5. The equation 223 = 7 is 2+2+3 = 7.

    6. The 340 is written ininvisible in.

    7. The 340 is a coded list of victims.

    8. All the Zodiac ciphers are solved using the same symbol-values.

    9. Unknown symbols in The 340 can be solved if the names are known.

  10. Two passageDAIBENFENE? and DEVINATOKN--contain names.

  11. DAIBENFENE? translates to the linking form DAVID F/D FERRIN.

  12. The Vallejo drivers are linked in The 340 to stress their connection.

  13. DEVINATOKN converts to BSTER, JOAJoan Webster.

  14. Both name strings contain 23 digittogether, they represent 23/23.

  15. The 340 was not meant to be solved; it was proof of pre-selection.

  16. The claim of seven victims as of 10/31/69 was accurate.

  17. The Zodiac killes disguise is simply that he doest fit the profile.

  18. The Zodiac killes signature phrase is actually PLEASE RUSH TO EDITOR.

  19. PLEASE RUSH TO EDITOR (x2) converts to Michael Hars SSN.

  20. The Dear Melvin Letter is sent to confirm Michael Hars DOB.




Johns & Salem


Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** Cryptogram ******


I divide all cryptography into three categories:

a. Serious Cryptography, which is the kind used by intelligence bureaus of
governments and by security departments of big companies.  The Purple Code and
The Japanese Naval Code are examples of Serious Cryptography, which The Zodiac
Project isn't . . . as far as I can tell.

b. Baby Block Cryptography, which is the kind found on the puzzle page of most
newspapers.  Most of the cryptographic insights made in this book are examples
of Baby Block (for example, the most basic kind of letter-to-number code is
A=1, B=2, C=3, and this very simple conversion is what's used for most of the
Zodiac killer's major points).

and c. Decoder Ring Cryptography, which is Baby Block taken a step or two
further, of which The Cryptogram is an example.

Earlier versions of this book contained Decoder Ring Analysis of all the Zodiac
documents.  I literally digitized every single Zodiac letter and message,
scanned them using the SEARCH function of my word processor, and highlighted
the most interesting results in a grid on the page.  If I end up doing anything
like that in this edition, it will be in the form of an image scan of the
earlier material.  In any case, I've come to the conclusion, after twenty years
and several editions of this book, that my time is better served trying to
explain:

      a, WHAT the Zodiac killer was doing;

      b, WHY he was doing it; and

      c, in some cases, HOW he was doing it.

But I do have to take out my Decoder Ring to deal with The Cryptogram, so I'll
try to make this chapter as painless as possible (it may still hurt, though).



Cryptogram Facts

1. On August 1, 1969, The Vallejo Times-Herald, The San Francisco Examiner, and
The San Francisco Chronicle each received one-third of a cryptogram, postmarked
the day before.  The cover letter for each was essentially the same message
with minor variations.

2. Each third was 8 lines by 17 columns, the total cipher consisting of 24
lines of 17 characters.

3. The language of the cover letters lacked verbal sophistication, yet the
cipher itself was clever enough to frustrate the CIA, FBI, NSA, and other
experts.

4. The Salinas couple who did come up with the solution--Donald Harden and his
wife Bettye--commented on how cleverly The Cryptogram was constructed, in such
a way as to discourage easy deciphering.  A local expert on codes agreed that
the Zodiac killer obviously knew his business when it came to constructing
ciphers.

5. Nonetheless, the solution disappointed both the Hardens and police.  The
plaintext message was nothing more than a theme-and-variations on his motives
for murder (I LIKE KILLING PEOPLE BECAUSE IT IS SO MUCH FUN . . . ),

6. The Zodiac killer had apparently been bluffing about the cipher containing
his name, unless the gibberish at the end (EBEORIETEMETHHPITI) was an anagram
for his signature.


Cryptogram Non-Facts

Four aspects of The Cryptogram were misunderstood at the time of its
publication:

1. The cipher as published wast what the Zodiac killer sent.

2. The Zodiac killer never actually said his name was in the cipher.

3. The MOST misleading aspect of the cipher was thesolve part.

4. The form of the cipher was almost more important than its content.


Cryptogram Non-Solution

If The Cryptogram contained clues to its solution, it also featured many hints
about the kind of person(s) who composed it.  For example, The Cryptogram was a
multiple-substitution cipher with seven different symbols representing the most
common letter, E.

The solved message, on the other hand, was childlike in its simplicity.

    I LIKE KILLING PEOPLE BECAUSE IT IS SO MUCH FUN . . .

Shouldnt someone have come out and said, It cant be that simple?  No one
goes to that much trouble to convey such an idiotic message!

When NASA sent Voyager out beyond the solar system, the accompanying disc
didnt consist entirely of a sound recording of When You Wish Upon A Star.

Maybe it should have?  Voyager might land on a planet like ours, be confiscated
by the local police, and they may not get the BINARY message that was on the
real disc!


Whose Puzzle?

I  cant present the Harden solution to The Cryptogram . . . because its
wrong.

Its not that the Hardens themselves did anything wrong, they were just working
on something that WASNT the Zodiacs Cryptogram.  Here is what I believe the
Zodiac killer actually sent, as copied from Gareth Penn's Times 17:



Apparently, between the time The Cryptogram was received (Friday, August 1,
1969) and when the entire thing was published (Sunday, August 3, 1969), police
changed at least 19 symbols of the original grid:



Whoever did it did a good job--the rank and file of the cipher grid was
maintained, and more than half the changes involved simply filling in empty
square symbols.  My guess is, the substitution was done by a police sketch
artist.  Police do things like this so that if the real Zodiac comes forward
and says, Hey thats not what I sent you, theyve got him!

I know this because Gareth Penn used a slightly different set of symbols from
the ones shown in Graysmiths Zodiac, presumably because his father was in law
enforcement and had access to the originals (though I dont recall Gareth ever
actually explaining this):



 Im doing the method of change here off the top of my head, so I dont swear
by the accuracy of each individual change.  Remember, Gareths symbols were the
originals; Graysmiths were post-change.

VTH
    1. Line 4, Column 5: Half-filled square filled in.
    2. Line 5, Column 16: Dotted triangle filled in.
    3. Line 7, Column 4: Capital with strokes made curvier.
    4. Line 7, Column 9: Blank triangle filled in.
    5. Line 7, Column 14: Dotted circle turned into a.
    6. Line 7, Column 16: Half-filled square filled in.
    7. Line 8, Column 5: Half-filled square filled in.

SFE
    8. Line 1, Column 17: Half-filled square filled in.
    9. Line 5, Column 4: Dotted triangle filled in.
  10. Line 7, Column 7: Half-filled square filled in.

SFC
    11. Line 1, Column 15: Half-filled square filled in.
    12. Line 2, Column 9: Half-filled square filled in.
    13. Line 2, Column 10: Dotted triangle filled in.
    14. Line 3, Column 1: turned (clumsily) into half-filled square.
    15. Line 4, Column 14: Half-filled square filled in.
    16. Line 5, Column 13: Black triangle whited-in and (clumsily) dotted.
    17. Line 6, Column 4: Half-filled square filled in.
    18. Line 6, Column 5: Half-filled square filled in.
    19. Line 7, Column 8: Dotted triangle filled in.

Two quick quibbles:

1, Gareth Penn has backward-F in Line 6, Columns 2 and 7 of The SFC; Graysmith
has backward-E.  As you can see, I circled the second instance in my earlier
editions (scanned above).  I'm inclined to think Gareth simply mistyped, since
otherwise one would have to substitute DOLLEDTING for COLLECTING.  Further
analysis is called for here, but I don't have time to do it right now, and I
doubt that the difference would be worth my delaying the rest of the book for
(but I've been wrong before).

2, Michael Rodelli has made the interesting suggestion that police may have
solved The Cryptogram on Friday or Saturday and THEN changed the symbol grid
for the Sunday paper to trick the killer into coming forward with his own
(corrected) solution.  Mike bases this insight on the fact that at least one of
the changes (WILE to WILL) corrects a misspelling in the cipher text.  If he's
right, it makes the script of David Fincher's movie, which makes fun of the
cipher being solved in the breakfast nook of the Hardens, look foolish.

In any case, without going into cryptographic detail, its clear that Gareths
version of The Cryptogram is more internally consistent, so thats what Im
going with:

I LIKE KILLING PEOPLE BECAUSE IT IS SO MUCH FUN.  IT IS MORE FUN THAN KILLING
WILD GAME IN THE FORREST BECAUSE MAN IS THE MOST DANGERTUE ANIMAL OE ALL.  TO
KILL SOMETHING GIVES ME THE MOST THRILLING EXPERENCE.  IT IS EVEN BETTER THAN
GETTING YOUR ROCKS OFF WITH A GIRL.  THE BEST PART OF IT IS THAE WHEN I DIE I
WILL BE REBORN IN PARADICE AND ALL THE I HAVE KILLED WILL BECOME MY SLAVES.  I
WILE NOT GIVE YOU MY NAME BECAUSE YOU WILL TRY TO SLOI DOWN OR STOP MY
COLLECTING OF SLAVES FOR MY AFTERLIFE.  EBEORIETEMETHHPITI

I realize some readers are going to drily remark, after a quick comparison,
that the difference between versions wasnt worth commenting on.  And for the
purposes of this book, theyre right.  The differences are subtle enough that I
wont end up discussing them here.  But since were dealing with what
cryptographers call a two-step cipher, where the apparent solution is just
the middle step in the process, even a small change could affect the final
reading.  And since Im going to use the correct solution, I thought Id
explain why.


Cipher Identity

Sometimes the Zodiac killer sent the most important clue to one of his
mysteries in the next mailing or shortly thereafter.  For instance, he sent The
Mt. Diablo Code in his letter of June 26, 1970, and then mentioned radians in
the postscript of a letter the following month (July 25, 1970).  In the very
next letter after The Cryptogram (August 7, 1969), he called himself the
Zodiac for the first time:

    This is the Zodiac speaking.

One would assume he reserved this nominal coming-out party for some significant
information.  True to form, he gave it to us parenthetically:

    By the way, are the police
    haveing a good time with the
    code?  If not, tell them to cheer
    up; when they do crack it
    they will have me.

In the four decades since this letter was sent, people have assumed that the
Zodiac killer was merely amusing himself.  After all, the last full sentence of
The Cryptogram solution says, like a surprise punchline, that he will NOT give
his name.

I WILE NOT GIVE YOU MY NAME BECAUSE YOU WILL TRY TO SLOI DOWN OR STOP MY
COLLECTING OF SLAVES FOR MY AFTERLIFE.

But he never said The Cryptogram contained his NAME.  He said

    In this cipher is my identity.

Your identity can consist of any number of things besides your name.
The Zodiac killer isnt telling us his name.  Hes telling us who he is.

                  are the police
    haveing a good time with the
    code?

Note that he uses the word code.  The Cryptogram isnt a code; its an
independently encrypted document--a cipher.  A code is a general system of
encryption.  So hes not really talking about The Cryptogram itself.  Hes
saying, "Have you figured out my language yet?" Figure out his language, and
youll figure out who he is.


Two-Step Ciphers

So The Cryptogram was just a big joke, right?  A big build-up to an idiotic
payoff?

Not exactly.  Remember, both the Hardens and the professional codebreakers who
studied The Cryptogram found it to be cryptographically sophisticated.  So . .
. does it make sense that someone smart enough to construct a multiple
substitution cipher--one using seven different symbols for the letter E in a
meticulously repeating sequence--would then make use of that complex mechanism
to gush ungrammatically about the joys of multiple murder?

No.  But he might do that if The Cryptogram were really a two-step cipher.

A two-step cipher has three layers.  On top is the cipher text, also called the
cover text.  Even when you decipher it correctly, the solution is
disappointing, because its only the first stage of a two-step process.  You
either get what looks like gibberish (EBEORIETEMETHHPITI), or you get an
innocuous message (I LIKE KILLING PEOPLE . . . ).  You only get the real
solution when you go that second step.

CIPHER TEXT                                      The Cryptogram symbols
APPARENT SOLUTION                       I LIKE KILLING PEOPLE . . .
PLAIN TEXT (REAL SOLUTION)        ???

So . . . why dont we try out this revolutionary idea?  Lets use some of our
decoding methods on The Cryptograms solution, and see if we get a different
message entirely!


LIKE

    I LIKE KILLING PEOPLE

Oddly enough, I dont think this is true.  In the one non-shooting murder for
which we have a witness, Lake Berryessa, the Zodiac killer seems almost to be
forcing himself to go through with it.  Bryan Hartnell describes a Zodiac who
says little, acts mechanically, and breathes hard throughout his stabbing
attack.  Hardly the impression a cackling, orgiastic killer would make!

Nevertheless, something about those first two words is familiar!

    I       LIKE

    I       L      I     K     E
    9      12 + 9 + 11 + 5 = 37

    I      LIKE
    9 +  37      =    46
    
The first thing we notice is that I LIKE adds up to 46 in alphabet numbers.  So
hes starting off the document with a form of 2 x 23.  That in itself would
seem to indicate were on the right track!  But lets look again.  Remember
what we said about the scorecard number at the bottom of the Zodiac killers
Exorcist Letter?

    Me - 37

The Zodiac killer usually uses one of two numbers, 6 or 9, to equate himself to
something.  The number 6 is Morse/binary ME; the number 9 is the 9th letter,
I.

    I       LIKE
    9        37

Again, hes making the same statement he made to equate himself to pi:

    I (am) 37.

I. e.,  I am pi, or 3 followed by 7 decimal digits which spells ZODIAC.  I
will come back to this in a moment.


KILLING PEOPLE

Lets look at the next two words, using the same approach:

    KILLING PEOPLE

     K     I      L      L     I     N    G
    11 + 9 + 12 + 12 + 9 + 14 + 7  =  74

     P      E     O     P      L    E
    16 +  5 + 15 + 16 + 12 + 5  =  69

KILLING PEOPLE just happens to add up to 74-69.  Or, to add a dash of emphasis,
7-4-69.

7-4-69 would indicate July 4th, 1969.

Remember, I said the Darlene Ferrin murder actually took place a few minutes
after midnight on July 5th, 1969, but the Zodiac killer kept insisting in his
letters that it happened on July 4th?  Now you know why the Zodiac killer
wanted the Ferrin murder to happen on July 4th, 1969.

So that, on that day, he would be KILLING PEOPLE!


Mistakes

Gareth Penn once said that the Zodiac killer intended to kill Darlene Ferrin on
July 4, 1969, but wasnt quite able to manage it.  I now suspect the Zodiac
intentionally waited until after midnight to shoot the couple in the Blue Rock
Springs parking lot.  If you watch David Finchers movie Zodiac, you will see
the Zodiac killer pull into the parking lot behind them, then drive off, then
come back and start shooting.  Partly this is because there has to be some
voluntary aspect to what the victims do, in keeping with the pagan sacrifice
rituals, a subject which I will cover in a later section.  I. e., he has to
give them a chance to drive away.

Since the victims dont know hes about to start shooting them, hes not giving
them much of a chance, but there has to be at least the appearance of
compliance on their part (in keeping with their being voluntary passengers).

The same is true of other victims.  Cheri Bates appears to have walked off with
her killer.  Her killer even says, in The Confession Letter, SHE WENT VERY
WILLINGLY.  David Faraday and Betty Lou Jensen apparently chose to park in
that spot along Lake Herman Road.  Paul Stine let the Zodiac killer into his
car and then went where the Zodiac killer told him to go.  Again, these victims
were unaware of what was in store for them, so their actions werent really
voluntary, but they SEEMED to cooperate in their fate.

But the more immediate reason to wait until after midnight to begin shooting is
that it allows him to call attention to his mistake.  Thus, neither of the
dates given in The Cryptogram cover letters, or in the follow-up This is the
Zodiac speaking" Letter of August 4, 1969, is accurate.

    Christmass        4th July

Those are both wrong.  The Christmas murders actually took place on December
20, 1968.
And the July 4th murder took place in the early minutes of July 5, 1969.

The Zodiac killer used apparent mistakes to call attention to some aspect of
his scheme.
I will point out other such mistakes as we stumble over them.


Three Parts

Just in case you were wondering, he divides The Cryptogram into 3 parts because
the Devil in Dants Inferno has three heads.  Metaphorically, its just that
simple.

But another, more practical reason to do it is that newspapers are in
competition with one another.  When The Vallejo Times-Herald, The San Francisco
Examiner, and The San Francisco Chronicle all receive a third of a killers
cryptogram, one of the three papers is bound to publish it.  And once that
happens, the other two will follow suit.

The Zodiac killer could not take the chance with this, his most important piece
of information, that the publication might come down to editorial whim.  So he
divides The Cryptogram into three pieces and sends it off to the three major
newspapers in the San Francisco Bay Area.  David Finchers movie has several
scenes devoted to the editorial decision, on the part of The San Francisco
Chronicle, to publish the letter.


390 18

I mentioned that the Zodiac killer never said The Cryptogram contained his
name, i. e., it doesnt contain 'Michael OHare'.  However, he did say The
Cryptogram contained his identity.

   I (am) pi.

Again, he is pi because the binary/Morse form of pi spells out

    M.ERAHO.

So there must be a reference to pi in The Cryptogram.  And there is.  I already
mentioned that the first two words of the solution,

    I LIKE,

--actually means

   I (am) pi.

But the FORM of The Cryptogram says the same thing.  It consists of 390
characters of a statement (I LIKE KILLING PEOPLE . . .), followed by 18
characters of apparent gibberish (EBEORIETEMETHHPITI).  The closest one can
come to the relationship between 3 and .1415926 in 408 characters is to divide
them 390/18.

        3    ?    .1415926    =    21.1875 . . .     

    389    ?    19              =    20.4737

    390    ?    18              =    21.6666

    391    ?    17              =    23


The form of The Cryptogram is itself a representation of pi.


Cryptogram Review

Im doing the final 18 letters, EBEORIETEMETHHPITI, as a separate chapter, so
this review is for The Cryptogram itself.


    1. The cipher grid was changed by police; that changed the solution.

    2. The Zodiac killer said The Cryptogram contained his identity, not his
name.

    3. The Harden Solution (I LIKE KILLING PEOPLE . . .) was the first of two
steps.

    4. I LIKE is 46, or 2 x 23; it is alsoI (am) 37 or pi.

    5. KILLING PEOPLE is 74-69; the Blue Rock Springs attack was on 7-4-69.

    6. The Zodiac killer used mistakes (Christmass, July 4th) as red flags.

    7. The cipher was in three parts because Dants devil has three heads.

    8.  The form of The Cryptogram (390/18) is itself an expression of pi.


Ready for something a bit more challenging?

Its time we tackled one of the great unsolved mysteries of the Zodiac
casethose final 18 letters of The Cryptogram, EBEORIETEMETHHPITI.



18 Letters

One could argue that the entire Zodiac mystery comes down to a group of 18
seemingly random letters at the end of The Cryptogram.

EBEORIETEMETHHPITI

If you Google those 18 letters, you will be escorted to various "Zodiac
killer"-related sites, most of which simply report that the passage was found
at the end of the first Zodiac killer cipher, some of which actually attempt to
decipher it . . . or at least, make the first rudimentary steps toward a
solution.  Lets therefore make some basic assumptions about it:

1, That the Zodiac killer might sign the message with an anagram of his own
name is perfectly reasonable.  For example, one group of Zodiologists
believes the Zodiac killer was also The Unabomber.  They believe the 18 letters
convert to his name (including his middle initial):

THEODORE J. KACZYNSKI

2, The idea that the letters at the end simply fill out the grid is also
reasonable.

I believe that, like all messages from the Zodiac killer, there was a dual
purpose to those 18 letters.  The sudden intrusion, following 390 characters
that make some sort of sense, of 18 letters that dont, may serve as the most
blatant indicator that what the reader assumed WAS a solution WASNT a
solution.  It also follows that the perfect misdirection would be to have the
public breathlessly read the apparent solution, then dismiss it because it
contained no significant information, only to have the significant information
hidden underneath.

Theres a term for this in the world of cryptography.  Its called a Two-Step
Cipher.
And the 18 letters are a blinking neon sign advertising its presence.


Final Message

Why go to the trouble of composing a multiple substitution cipher which has a
straightforward--if anticlimactic--solution, and then dividing it into three
parts and mailing it to three newspapers in the metropolitan area with as much
menacing fanfare as you can drum up . . . if youre going to leave 18 letters
at the end that dont mean anything?

EBEORIETEMETHHPITI

Obviously, you wouldnt want to do that.  So we have to assume, unless the
Zodiac killer was just haveing some fun with us (as he did at the phone booth
with the Vallejo cop), that The 18 Letters are perhaps even more significant
than anything else hes told us.

The odd thing about The 18 Letters is that theyre designed to mean nothing on
the surface--their apparent lack of meaning is itself a clue--but beneath the
surface, they reveal the ultimate ends of The Zodiac Project.

The 18 Letters are meant, first of all, to indicate that what follows The
Cryptogram will not be a superficially straightforward message as the first 390
characters are.  In other words, they are a blatant indication that what I said
in the previous chapter is true, that The Cryptogram is a two-step cipher.  Any
attempt to solve it using conventional methods will eventually break down, and
leave you with an inane message which seems to say very little.

This essentially prepares the way for The 340-Character Cipher, which never had
a straightforward solution . . . and wasnt even meant to be deciphered.

I will discuss The 340 when we get to it.  For now, lets decipher The 18
Letters.


Three Sections

And now, as we used to say back in the 50s, the $64,000 Question:

What do The 18 Letters at the end of The Cryptogram really mean?

EBEORIETEMETHHPITI

Okay, this is a mystery thats lasted 40 years.  My high school class didnt
even wait that long to hold its 40th reunion!  Its time somebody solved this
thing!

And no, its NOT an anagram of the killers name.

The 18 Letters come at the end of the Zodiac killers very first cipher.  They
tell you whats going to happen at the end of The Zodiac Project.

EBEORIETEMETHHPITI

Like The Cryptogram itself, Im going to divide the 18 Letters into three
parts, but in this case theyre not equal:

E    BEORIET    EMETHHPITI
1     7                 10

There are three sections but only two significant expressions.  Note,
incidentally, that the final two sections add up to 17, and represent the same
number of stab wounds administered to Bryan Hartnell (7) and Cecelia Ann
Shepard (10) at Lake Berryessa a couple of months later.

And no, thats NOT a coincidence.


First Letter

E
0

The initial E is actually just a place-holder, though it may also be intended
to provide symmetry with the final Morse/binary character (a zero).  Remember,
The Cryptogram, once its three parts were put together, consisted of 24 lines
of 17 characters apiece.

In the cipher text of The Cryptogram, this first character is the last symbol
at the end of line 23.  It is character 17 of line 23.  Since we know that the
fundamental design of The Zodiac Project is a dichotomy of 23/23, a closing
message that begins at the very end of Line 23 would seem appropriate,
particularly since we're dealing with someone who led a normal life for his
first 23 years, and then intended to be a notorious killer for his remaining 23
years.  There has to be a connection, however brief, to that first half of his
life, so that we're aware of the dichotomy.

Note, also, that this symbol occurs immediately following the word

AFTERLIFE.

If the Zodiac Projects fundamental design element is symmetry, then a message
that concerns events at the end of his life would be appropriate following the
word AFTERLIFE, correct?


Next Seven Letters

Lets look at the second section of the message:

  B     E  O    R     I  E T
1000  0 111 010 00 0 1

100 0 01 1

D    E  A  T    (H)
100 0 01  1    (0000)

The Zodiac killer sometimes used shortened forms of his favorite Morse/binary
expressions; I think this is the only example I cite in this book, but Im
calling attention to it because its crucial to the reading.  The justification
for using any such shortened form is that what follows it are binary zeroes,
which are just two-multipliers.  In other words, eliminate all trailing zeroes
and you have the Morse/binary root of the word.

DEATH isnt used in its normal Morse/binary form (10000110000) because the
Zodiac killer wants it to overlap with another expression in binary math:

 B     E   O    R    I  E T
1000  0 111 010 00 0 1   

10000 111 010 00 0 1    

1110100001 = 929

So--long story short--the first of two messages is:

BEORIET = DEATH/929


DEATH 929

Anyone familiar with the Zodiac killer should know what DEATH means by now, but
what does 929 mean?  Is it a date, or a time?  If 929 were a date, 9-29, it
would be September 29th, which is the day on the Catholic Calendar reserved for
St. Michael, Michaelmas.  Since our suspects first name is Michael, that might
indicate were on the right track.   However, for a killer who draws designs on
USGS quadrangles, 929 seems more likely to be a destination than a date or
time--Highway 929 to Hell.

DEATH/929really meanDeath in Room 929, MIT Towe.

And yes, Im talking about the same MIT Tower featured so prominently in
Michael OHares Progressive Architecture article.



Like a railroad track, a train of thought connecting Riverside to The Terminus
Event, and scheduling a final stop at The MIT Tower, is another example of
temporal symmetry.
What you see at The Beginning, you see at The End.



Final Ten Letters

Now lets look at the 3rd section:

E  M  E  T    H       H      P      I   T  I
0  11  0  1  0000 0000 0110  00 1 00

Although Im expressing the Morse code values here with binary digits (instead
of dots and dashes), Im going to translate this passage using straightforward
Morse redivision, except for the final binary zero.

Does the reader understand what I mean by redivision?
If not, heres an example, in English, from my childhood:

There was a local Pittsburgh kids show back in the late 50s or early 60s
called The Paul Shannon Show, which featured shorts by The Three Stooges and a
character who resembled Claude Rains in The Invisible Man, with airplane
goggles and a trench coat.  The characters name was Nosmo King, and between
shorts the character would be seen sneaking onto the set and scrawling the
message NOSMO WAS HERE on a wall.  I suppose the message was supposed to be
subliminal, but it wasnt until I was in my 30s that I finally realized

NOSMO KINGwas actuallyNO SMOKING!

Its the same set of letters in the same sequence, but divided differently, as
a result of which, you get a completely different message.  Thats all were
doing with Morse redivision; the same sequence, but divided differently so that
it spells something completely different.

E  M  E  T      H      H       P       I   T   I
0  11  0  1  0000  0000  0110  00  1  00

01  10   100  00  000  0   0  110 0  010    0
A    N      D     I,    S    E  E   G   E    R    (x2)

So the 3rd expression is:

EMETHHPITI = AND I, SEEGER (x2)

The (x2) is there after SEEGER because theres a trailing 0 after the SEEGER
digits, and trailing 0s in binary math are two-multipliers.



Rendezvous With Death

AND I, SEEGER (x2) is yet another literary reference.

Alan Seeger was an American poet born in 1888.  Like Michael OHare, he was
born in New York City, and like Michael O'Hare, he went to Harvard.  Unlike
Michael OHare, he fought and died in WWI and was buried in a mass grave in
France.  Alan Seegers nephew is the folk singer Pete Seeger, who wrote Where
Have All The Flowers Gone?, an anti-war song about soldiers dying for nothing.

Alan Seegers most famous poem was also JFKs favorite, the appropriately (for
both men) fatalistic I Have A Rendezvous With Death.  Because the poem
figures so prominently at this point in the Zodiac killer literature, Im going
to quote the entire thing:

I Have A Rendezvous With Death by Alan Seeger

  1    I have a rendezvous with Death
  2    At some disputed barricade,
  3    When Spring comes back with rustling shade
  4    And apple-blossoms fill the air
  5    I have a rendezvous with Death
  6    When Spring brings back blue days and fair.
  7    It may be he shall take my hand
  8    And lead me into his dark land
  9    And close my eyes and quench my breath
10    It may be I shall pass him still.
11    I have a rendezvous with Death
12    On some scarred slope of battered hill,
13    When Spring comes round again this year
14    And the first meadow-flowers appear.

15    God knows 'twere better to be deep
16    Pillowed in silk and scented down,
17    Where Love throbs out in blissful sleep,
18    Pulse nigh to pulse, and breath to breath,
19    Where hushed awakenings are dear...
20    But I've a rendezvous with Death
21    At midnight in some flaming town,
22    When Spring trips north again this year,
23    And I to my pledged word am true,
24    I shall not fail that rendezvous.


SEEGER

I believe the Zodiac killer is referring to the beginning of Line 23 (of all
lines!) when he says AND I, SEEGER.  Note, incidentally, the symmetry in a
message that begins at the end of one Line 23 (the last character of The
Cryptogram's next-to-last line), and ends at the beginning of another Line 23
(the first character of the Seeger poem's next-to-last line).  In other words,
the source for the allusion is bracketed by two 23s.

There can be no mistake about his intention.

And I to my pledged word am true,
I shall not fail that rendezvous.

I. e., the Zodiac killer has a rendezvous with death.
At a specific time, on a specific day.
And he intends to go out with a very big bang!

The police and public only saw the preliminary solution of a two-step cipher,
and decided that the Zodiac killer was playing some silly game with them.  The
correct, second-step solution shows that he is deadly serious.  

Seeger (x2)

As it happens, Alan Seeger was born on 73rd Street in NYC.  Remember the
trailing binary zero after his name?  73rd Street (times two) equals 146. 
Since 146 is the last thing he says in The Cryptogram, the reader may rest
assured that 146 is his final destination.

But wait--he intends DEATH in Room 929 of The MIT Tower?

And then schedules a rendezvous with DEATH at 146?

If you cant be in two places at once, how can you die in two places?

I will address this issue in The April 1970 Letters.  But suffice it to say
that if the chief design element of The Zodiac Project is symmetry, where
everything happens in twos, and the project will come to an end with a very big
bang in 1989, then logically that end would come in not one, but two, places.



Anagrams?

Meanwhile, to those of you who were disappointed when I said that The 18
Letters were NOT an anagram of the killers name, do what the Zodiac killer
suggests and cheer up!  The Zodiac killer DID spell out his name . . . just not
in The Cryptogram.

He did it in a much more prominent place.

All right, Ill give you a hint.  Theres something hes doing here in The
Cryptogram cover letters that doesnt make any sense, if you think about it. 
In fact, hes about to risk arrest at a crime scene in the very near future,
just to cover up the fact that hes spelling out his name.

Ill give you another hint.  Its the first thing I ever noticed about the
Zodiac murders, and I noticed it in 1986, long before I suspected Gareth Penn
of being involved.  Its the thing that made me think other people following
the case just werent paying attention.  So--if youre paying attention, see if
you can find it before I show it to you!



18 Letters Review

Although the solution to the mystery of The 18 Letters isnt as straightforward
as some people might have likedit isnt an anagram of the killers nameits
also not at all complicated.


  1. The 18 Letters are there to tell us The Cryptogram is a 2-Step Cipher.

  2. The 18 Letters are split into 3 sections: E, BEORIET, and EMETHHPITI.

  3. The letter E is simply a place-holder which mirrors the final binary 0.

  4. The letter E does, however, come at the end of Line 23 of the cipher.

  5. BEORIET translates to the overlapping phrase DEATH/929.

  6. DEATH/929 meansDeath in Room 929 of The MIT Tower.

  7. EMETHHPITI translates by Morse redivision to AND I, SEEGER (x2).

  8. AND I, SEEGER (x2) meansI Have A Rendezvous With Death at 146.

  9. AND I comes at the beginning of Line 23 of the poem.

10. The Zodiac killer WAS spelling out his nambut in another prominent place!


For more clues to this last point, we move to the murder at Lake Berryessa.



Lake Berryessa

Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
                           ****** Donna Lass ******

Im grouping the Donna Lass murder with the two October 1970 mailings and the
two March 1971 mailings because the letters are mainly about the murder, even
though we dont know exactly how it happened.

The Donna Lass murder is, in many ways, the Zodiacs signature crime. How can
the murder of a secret victim many people dont even associate with the
Zodiac possibly be his signature crime? That is actually the point.

Quick: What's the largest man-made structure in the world?

Answer: The Atlantic Wall!

Why doesn't everyone know the answer to that question?

Because most of it isn't visible! Major sections of The Atlantic Wall consist
of mining, both underground and underwater, and buried infrastructure.

If the biggest man-made thing in the world can somehow escape everyone's
attention because it's not directly out in front of people, maybe the world's
most notorious serial killer could bury a victim in a public park, in plain
sight, in the middle of the day, employing a pick, shovel, and a couple hours
worth of subterfuge?

In the midst of his grand design, the Zodiac has placed a victim whose murder
happened offstage, whose character is barely established beyond being a fairly
typical abductee, whose employment at the Sahara Hotel was so casual that the
casino didnt even replace her after she disappeared, and whose identity, if
her body is ever found, can only be established through a relatively recent
method (DNA) of identification, BECAUSE SHE HAD NO DENTAL RECORDS. Even the
computerized system for Jane Does would not be able to identify her.

And yet, it is Donna Lass who is at the epicenter of the Zodiacs design, whose
very life straddled the border between our world and the Zodiacs, and the
location of whose remains, more than four decades after burial, may still break
the case wide open.

The Zodiac Project is a locked puzzle.

And Donna Lass is the key to its solution.

Donna Lass Facts

When true crime magazine shows such as 48 Hours or Cold Case (the A&E network
show, NOT the CBS network drama) depict a murder, they usually spend the first
15-20 minutes recounting events in the life of the victim, his last day of
life, her final hours, the mundane routine that was interrupted by death.

In the case of the Zodiacs signature victim, that retelling would only take a
few seconds. Her life was centered around her job as a registered nurse, her
death was almost literally a blank page, and her disappearance created so
little stir that almost a month went by before anyone noticed it . . . though
this was largely due to the Zodiacs skill at covering it up.

On Sunday, September 6, 1970, Donna Lass, 25, was working as a nurse at The
Sahara Casino in Stateline, Nevada, around 2am, possibly making a note in her
logbook while sitting in her office, when she disappeared. Her last entry
trailed off on the page . . .

At the time, no one was even aware of what had happened, since Donna worked
alone in a small office that no one else used.

There was no outcry and no sign of foul play.

An unidentified male caller contacted both Donnas landlord and her employer
within 24 hours of the disappearance, and said she would not be returning
because of an illness in the family.

There was no such illness.

Donnas family was from South Dakota.

Donna Lass lived in South Lake Tahoe, California and worked in Stateline,
Nevada. Her life, in geographic terms, straddled the California/Nevada border.

She had disappeared without a trace, and almost without notice.


Previous Points

To reiterate points made previously in this book:

1. The Donna Lass murder is predicted by the TIMEX watch time of 12:22. The
Zodiac leaves a Wrist Watch (W-W) at the Riverside crime scene, and Gareth Penn
says that the stopped watch reads 12:22.



12:22 is the clock face time at the California/Nevada border.



The time of 12:22 will also appear on another artifact later in this book.

2. Because of the need to invoke the pagan sacrifice ritual, the Zodiac killed
people whose names suggested virginity (CHERI Bates) or who could somehow be
associated with a word that suggests virginity (Paul Stine being redirected one
block west of Maple to CHERRY Street).

LASS is another name for a virginal girl.

3. Donna Lass is buried at 739 Clay Street in Chinatown.

When I say shes buried at 739 Clay Street, I mean shes buried there RIGHT
NOW. I mean her bones are there, under the ground, RIGHT NOW and they can be
located and dug up and identified via DNA.

Unfortunately, the authorities are reluctant to take my word for that.

So lets start by explaining why I think it.


Radian Clue 2

Why do I think the Zodiac buried Donna Lass at 739 Clay Street?

Lets start with the radian.

Remember what Gareth Penn said about the most important design element of The
Zodiac Projectsymmetry.

What you see In The Beginning, you see at The End.

What you see on one side, you see on the other side.

All of which is to illustrate the elemental symmetry of 23/23.

If you look at the radian, you will note, however, that there is one murder
site on the south leg and two on the north.



The design prerequisites of The Zodiac Project dictate otherwise.

So there has to be another point on that south leg.


Benchmark Location

If you have a general location to search, and arent exactly sure where to
look, what clue would pinpoint a spot in The Zodiac Project?

Gareth Penn spends a good part of his book Times 17, not to mention much of his
previous and subsequent output, discussing the importance of USGS benchmarks to
The Zodiac Project.

After all, the Zodiac uses VABM 3849 as the basis for the radian itself.

And the crosshairs sign of the Zodiac is the symbol used by engineers to
indicate measurements at building sites, including altimeter readings.

Soare there any USGS benchmarks on that south leg?

Oddly enough, two of them are listed on USGS topographic maps. But BM 8 near
The Embarcadero was destroyed before The Zodiac Project got under way.

The remaining USGS Benchmark on that south leg is BM 54, located at 739 Clay
Street in San Franciscos Chinatown.

When I had a photographer from The San Francisco Examiner, John Storey, take
pictures of the area for me in 1990, he came up with this photograph, embedded
here in a page from my book with the USGS data for BM8 and BM54:



I immediately realized that Dragon Plaza might have suggested The Little Dragon
Card. I would, sometime later, be able to connect the word DRAGON to the
pasted-on PUMPKIN from The Halloween Card.

So thats where her body has to be buried.

Now . . . has the Zodiac dug up her body in the meantime?

He may have. As I will suggest in a future chapter, he dug Joan Websters body
up from its original burial spot in Chinatown because he wasnt able to
complete The Boston Triangle.

On the other hand, the Bay Area radian was finished with the placing of Donna
Lasss body. So its possible he feels he has to leave it there as a matter of
artistic integrity.

The bad news is, SFPD and the city of San Francisco wont let me use a GPR
machine to search for the bodys location.

The good news is, the bodys probably still there.


89449

Remember, Donna Lasss life straddled the California/Nevada border.

She lived in South Lake Tahoe, California and worked in Stateline, Nevada.

The zip code of Stateline, Nevada is 89449.

89     4 4 9

The last three numbers are all squares.

89     22 22 32

89449 is another way of saying Day 223 of Year 89.

Day 223 of 1989 is Friday, August 11, 1989.

The date of The Terminus Event.


Hole Card

The San Francisco Chronicle received a card the first week of October, 1970
which featured punched holes.



Initially the card was considered a Zodiac mailing, but then it was eliminated
as a copycat effort (maybe sent by the same people who did the Robert Salem
murder?).

I have a theory that each Zodiac mailing was intended to have a title, and that
the creators of The Zodiac Project anticipated each letter being given a name
to differentiate it from the others (The Cryptogram Cover Letters, The This
Is The Zodiac Speaking Letter, The School Bus Threat Letter, and so forth).

If you just killed someone, and intended to bury her somewhere out on the
landscape, what would be your next move?

Youd have to dig a hole, correct?

So the title of this mailing might have been, The Hole Card, and that is, in
fact, how people talking about the case usually refer to it.

It was meant to dramatize the burial of Donna Lass at 739 Clay Street, since it
is the Zodiac event that most immediately followed her murder.

Note that the card features a dateOctober 5, 1970. It is the only Zodiac
mailing that is dated by the sender. I suspect this is because October 5, 1970
was the actual date of the burial.

How could anyone bury a body in a public place without being stopped and/or
questioned? Ive never tried it, but I dont imagine it would be all that
difficult, particularly for a Caucasian in Chinatown in October 1970, as long
as you wore one of those orange vests (the vests wouldnt have to be official
issue CALTRANS vests, you could probably fake that part).

All you would have to do is wait until the last moment to bring the body
around, so you didnt get caught with it if the authorities showed up and asked
what you were doing.

The cross on the card, reminiscent of the ankhs left at the Robert Salem murder
scene, was supposedly drawn in human blood.

If DNA is available (not likely), it could be compared with the profiles of
various Zodiac victims. The most likely donor, however, would be Robert Salem.

In the meantime, lets assume the Zodiac realized that each of his mailings
would be given a title by the public, and that the title of the October 5, 1970
mailing would be: The Hole Card

What IS a hole card, anyway?

A hole card is the card dealt first in stud poker, face down on the table, with
the other four cards dealt face up beside it. There is also a hole card in
blackjack, but I think the intended allusion here was to stud poker, since
there were ten individual Zodiac victims.

So lets deal a hand symmetrically, for TWO players, which consists of those
ten victims:

Cheri Bates     Betty Lou Jensen

Im linking the Riverside victim with the collateral victim at Lake Herman Road
because they havent been recognized with the others.

David Faraday     Darlene Ferrin

The Vallejo drivers were paired by the Zodiac, so well pair them here.

Cecelia Shepard     Paul Stine

The Lake Berryessa victim and the Presidio Heights victim were linked as the
Zodiacs last two public victims.

Shelly Holmboe     Robert Salem

Shelly Holmboe establishes VABM3849, since her body was found along The Mt.
Diablo Meridian. Robert Salem is the reason the Zodiac says radians instead
of radian, since his body is found on a sub-radian off the south leg of The
Mt. Diablo Radian.

Thats 8 cards, which leaves two left in the deal. In keeping with a killer who
signs his name with a Z, the Zodiac deals the cards backwards, with the LAST
two victims face down:

Donna Lass     Joan Webster

Donna Lass is buried in Chinatown in San Francisco (in Portsmouth Square Park,
to be precise); Joan Webster was buried in Chinatown in Boston (at Kneeland
Road and I-93, an interstate exit since obliterated by The Big Dig).

The first eight victims of The Zodiac Project were found FACE UP. Not
literallyCheri Batess post-mortem pictures suggest she was face down on the
ground, for example, and though Paul Stine was left face up on the front seat
of his cab, theres no suggestion here that the Zodiac attempted to arrange the
bodies of his victims after killing them. But the first eight victims were
face up in the sense of being immediately apparent as victims and immediately
identifiable.

Donna Lass and Joan Webster are The Hole Cards of The Zodiac Project, the last
two victims who were dealt FACE DOWN.

They were, in other words, BURIED.

The next mailing continues this theme.


Dead Man's Hand

By the way, since I just mentioned the Zodiac's allusion to stud poker, I don't
want to be accused by my critics of suddenly bringing in a reference to playing
cards out of the blue.

There is at least one other allusion to poker in The Zodiac Project.

As I mentioned just above, the zip code of Stateline, Nevada, 89449, is a
reference to The Terminus Event, the date on which the Zodiac intended to go
out with a very big bang.

On Friday, August 11, 1989, the Zodiac intended a double event in Greater
Boston, consisting of a BLAST at The MIT Tower (Building 54) in Cambridge,
followed by a sniper event similar to that of Charles Whitman's Texas Tower
murders in 1966.

Another way of saying this is that Michael O'Hare intended to be Master of His
Own Fate (semantically impossible) by dealing himself a "Dead Man's Hand" on
Friday, August 11, 1989.

August 11, 1989 = 8-11-89

We know that the Zodiac uses the number 9 to stand for the 9th letter of the
alphabet, 'I'.

8-11-89 = 8118    9

Which gives us the numerical statement

"8118 am I."

If you look up "Dead Man's Hand" on Wikipedia, you'll see this illustration:




Halloween Card

On October 27, 1970, the Zodiac mailed his third commercial greeting card to
The San Francisco Chronicles Paul Avery.



The Halloween Card was part of the Secret Pal theme of greeting cards, which
the Zodiac would use again in December 1990.



Note that there are two skeletons attached to the card.

One is on the coverits fixed, and part of the original artwork.

The second is spot-pasted inside the card and can still move around.

I believe the two skeletons are meant to represent the bodies of those two
hole cards of The Zodiac ProjectDonna Lass and Joan Webster.

The skeleton on the cover is fixed because Donna Lass is already dead on
October 27, 1970.

The skeleton inside can still move around because it stands for Joan Webster,
who still has eleven years to live at the time of the mailing (October 27,
1970) since she will be murdered at age 25 on November 28, 1981.

Note that the phrase inside the card, PEEK-A-BOO! YOU ARE DOOMED! does NOT
refer to Paul Avery, who was the addressee. The person who is doomed is Joan
Webster.

Note the odd similarity between skeletons:

The cover skeleton has the number 14 on its hand; the inside skeleton has 4-
TEEN written on the card itself just above it.

Since the front skeleton represents Donna Lass, and she is already dead, it may
be said to be sending a message to us from beyond, in the hand gesturing in the
"OK" sign, in this case about the skeleton INSIDE the card, Joan Webster.

Joan Webster was born on August 19,1956, and, like Donna Lass, would be 25 when
she was abducted and murdered on November 28, 1981.

On October 27, 1970, she was 14 (4-TEEN) years old.

Note, parenthetically, that the skeleton holds up three fingers on the hand
with the 14, thus once again evoking pi (3.14).

But another detail about the cover skeleton is even more striking.


Pumpkin

A number of self-appointed psychologists have pointed to the paper pumpkin the
Zodiac pasted over the crotch of the cover skeleton.



THAT, they say, means the author of the card is Sexually Repressed.

Its high time the clock struck midnight on this interpretation!

Im not privy to Michael OHares sexual predilections, but I think he pasted
the paper pumpkin over the skeletons crotch for reasons having nothing to do
with sex or repression (or psychology, for that matter).

I know my critics are allergic to Morse/binary, so I try to avoid using it
wherever possible, but lets do a Morse/binary analysis of PUMPKIN:

   P     U   M    P     K     I   N
0110 001 11 0110 101 00 10 = 408,402

PUMPKIN is 408,402, which is

9 x 9 x 2 x 2521

  D    R    A   G    O   N
100 010 01 110 111 10 = 35,294

DRAGON is 35,294, which, oddly enough, is

7 x 2 x 2521

Both wordsPUMPKIN and DRAGONcontain the prime factor 2521!

What are the chances of that happening by accident, by the way?

What are the chances that TWO terms, both used prominently by the Zodiac killer
(PUMPKIN, which is what is pasted on the cover skeleton of The Halloween Card,
and DRAGON, the major theme of the Zodiacs Little DRAGON Card) BOTH contain
the prime factor 2521 when converted to Morse/binary?

Let me put it this way: The chances that the names of the two drivers in
Vallejo, David Faraday and Darlene Ferrin, BOTH contained EASTER in Morse code
(about 1 in 2500) are still exponentially greater than the chances of the same
4-digit PRIME factor showing up in two Zodiac terms when converted to Morse/
binary.

The historian Shelby Foote once cited the Confederate Secretary of War, LeRoy
Pope Walker, as predicting that all of the blood shed in the Civil War could be
wiped up with a pocket handkerchief. Foote said there was a PhD. dissertation
waiting for the candidate who could calculate how many handkerchiefs would have
been needed for that task.

I think the same could be said for a PhD. candidate in Mathematics: explain the
chances of the Zodiac killer using those two terms in close association with
each other, PUMPKIN and DRAGON, without being aware that both contained the 4-
digit prime factor 2521.

Especially considering that 2521 isnt just ANY 4-digit prime number.

2521 is a 4-digit prime number that can be constructed, in binary, using the
numbers 19 and 89.

100111011001 = 2521 (binary math)

10011 1011001
19       89

In other words, PUMPKIN and DRAGON are essentially the same, since they contain
the same 4-digit prime factor (2521).

Covering the skeleton depicted on the front of The Halloween Card (Donna Lass)
with a PUMPKIN is the same as saying shes buried under a DRAGON (Dragon Plaza,
the storefront adjacent to 739 Clay Street).

She will be UNCOVERED in 1989, when The Terminus Event takes place on Friday,
August 11 of that year. At that point, The Zodiac Project in its entirety would
be revealed, and the body of Donna Lass dug up.

Except, of course, that its still there, almost 22 years later.

Which he probably DIDNT expect.

Incidentally, Donna Lasss body is one of the two buried bombs the Zodiac
refers to cryptically.

B     O     M    B
2 + 15 + 13 + 2 = 32 (alphabet numbers)

BOMB is 32 by alphabet numbers. There are TWO victims, and 32 is 25, thus both
victims are "25" at the time of their deaths (they are buried BOMBs).


Paul Avery

Ive mentioned that the Zodiac knew WHO he was killing.

He also knew WHO he was writing to.

When he writes to Melvin Belli, he uses lettering on the envelope that exactly
matches the numbers as they appear on the wall of Bellis house.

http://mk-zodiac.com/1228.html

Kudos to Ricardo for noticing that, by the way.

The Zodiac didn't just know Belli's address from looking it up in the phone
book; he'd actually been out to his house, and the house number as written on
the envelope of the letter exactly matches the house number as written on the
side of his house. Or, as Ricardo puts it, they're the same font!

Kudos to Tom Voigt for noticing that the Zodiac copied Count Marcos
handwriting in The Count Marco Letter (July 9, 1974).

http://zodiackiller.21.forumer.com/
viewtopic.php?t=5538&start=0&sid=66f2758594368435589e4bf4383bcd3f

He didn't just write a menacing Zodiac letter to Count Marco. He somehow
obtained a sample of Count Marco's handwriting, most likely in a personal
letter (though not necessarily to someone Marco actually knew personally), and
then copied aspects of his handwriting (Count Marco's handwriting was somewhat
flowery, and the Zodiac's handwriting in The Count Marco Letter was also
unusually flowery for him) in his own letter to Count Marco.

That might also help to explain Marco Spinelli's sudden decision to stop
writing his column and leave the paper and the city. He hadn't just received a
menacing letter from the Zodiac; he'd received a letter that showed the Zodiac
was a lot closer than he'd ever imagined.

Note, by the way, that the clue on the Belli envelope was subtle; seeing that
clue was nothing short of brilliant. Ricardo, I bow to you, sir! Outstanding
work! But keep in mind that the Belli letter was written right in the middle of
the Zodiac's reign of terror period, so a subtle clue was called for.

In contrast, the mimicking of Count Marco's handwriting was blatant, and it
comes at the very end, in the very last public letter from the Zodiac, three
years after the main Zodiac period and nearly five years after the last
(public) murder (in Tom's case, it's the tracking down of one of Marco
Spinelli's letters and comparing it to The Count Marco Letter that's equally
brilliant).

Remember, I've never said that the Zodiac KNEW his victims, in the sense of
being a friend or an acquaintance or even a peripheral figure in their lives.
I've always said that he knew WHO THEY WERE, in the sense of being aware of
their surface identities (their names, but also other superficial aspects of
their lives), and that, in the course of doing his reconnaissance of possible
victims, he'd learn other useful things about them (for example, that Kathleen
Johns was pregnant and already had a small child, that Darlene Ferrin had
visited The Virgin Islands, that Cheri Bates frequented the RCC library).

Whoever killed Cheri Bates knew her car, and knew her address (since her father
received one of the three looseleaf notes).

Whoever killed Darlene Ferrin shone a flashlight at her before opening fire,
and then called three people named FERRIN an hour-and-a-half after the murder.

Shelly Holmboe's parents received menacing phone calls in the weeks after her
death.

Donna Lass's sister, Mary Pilker, received an odd Christmas card, possibly from
her killer, addressed to her home in South Dakota.

I don't think the Zodiac is at all similar to other serial killers, but one
general characteristic of serial murderers is that they become more blatant and
primitive (not necessarily in method, but in the nature of their attacks) the
further into their careers they get. It's usually this tendency toward their
primitive drives that brings them down; their Mr. Hyde half makes it impossible
for the Dr. Jeckyll half to keep them under wraps, and the mask slides off onto
the floor.

So if we're right about his researching Belli and Spinelli, and about that
research showing up in his letters to them . . . then we'd have to assume he'd
do the same thing with Paul Avery, right?

And if we could show that he DID do that with Avery, it might then suggest,
pretty strongly, that he did it with everybody, including his murder victims.

As a former war correspondent in Vietnam and a licensed private eye, Avery
could handle himself pretty well.  Robert Graysmith, Zodiac, page 161 of the
hardcover edition

When one thinks of a private eye, one thinks of someone surreptitiously peeking
into the private affairs of others, a snooping voyeur trying to catch his
victims with their pants down!

In The Halloween Card, the Zodiac adds TWELVE such peeking eyes looking through
a fence made of wood; in The Lake Tahoe Card, he includes cut-out phrases
saying, "Sought victim 12" and "peek through the pines" (a forest of pine trees
also being a "wood").

How many people knew Paul Avery was a licensed private eye? Maybe he mentioned
it occasionally in his stories, but old-fashioned reporters (such as Avery was,
despite the characterization of him in David Fincher's Zodiac) normally took
great pains to keep themselves out of the stories they covered, so one would
have had to follow Avery pretty closely to know he was a licensed private eye.
And again, in 1970, there was no internet or Robert Graysmith book, so the
information wouldn't have been easy to find.

Note that "private eye" is a slang term for "private investigator" or p-i (note
also, parenthetically, that 'eye' and 'I' are homophones).

But the Zodiac still makes that skeleton do double-duty (his law of symmetry
requiring that he get two meanings out of each symbol he uses). I just said
that a private eye attempts to catch people with their pants down. Note that
the eyes in the card take this to the next level.

The eyes are staring so hard at the victim, their sight turns into x-ray
vision! When you x-ray something, you can see the skeleton underneath.

A reference to X-RAYs might explain why the phrase "sorry no cipher" was
written out twice on the inside of the envelope, in the form of an 'X', and why
the words PARADICE and SLAVES form a cross-word, or X.

http://www.zodiackiller.com/HalloweenCardEnvelope.html

The x-ray reference might also explain why the Zodiac, for the only time I'm
aware of, uses white ink on the inside of the card, as if the effect of the x-
ray has been to turn the printing into a negative of itself. Granted, the white
ink matches what's printed on the face of the card, and it allows the writing
inside to be seen against a dark background. That the face of the card contains
both a skeleton and white ink allows this "x-ray effect" to be disguised,
another example of his misdirection.

And why write to Paul Avery TWICE? Because Paul Avery, in his identity as a
licensed private eye, is doing exactly the same thing the Zodiac is doing:
peeking into the private lives of his targets, and extracting whatever
information will then serve his purpose.

Bookworm on the original archived message board at Zodiackiller.com said he
thought the word paradice might have something to do with gambling; if its a
reference to Donna Lass, we know she worked at a casino.


LA Times Letter

The LA Times Letter was mailed, oddly enough, to The Los Angeles Times on March
13, 1971 from Pleasanton, California.

  P     L     E   A     S     A    N      T      O     N
16 + 12 + 5 + 1 + 19 + 1 + 14 + 20 + 15 + 14 = 117

Pleasanton is 117 by alphabet numbers. Riverside is 117? West.

He mails the letter from PLEASANTON to remind us that hes using alphabet
numbers, and to thereby acknowledge his activity in RIVERSIDE.

Which he also does in the text of the letter:

I do have to give them
credit for stumbling across
my riverside activity, but
they are only finding the
easy ones, there are a hell
of a lot more down there.

Paul Avery of The San Francisco Chronicle had published a series of articles on
the Zodiacs link to Riverside in November 1970. Note that the Zodiac suggests
hes committed other murders that the newspapers likewise havent linked to him
as yet (Shelly Holmboe, Robert Salem, Donna Lass).

Note also his wording: There are a hell of a lot more down there.
In Dante's Inferno, Hell is literally a place down there, down a dark hole.

Note finally that the Zodiac ends the letter by complaining about his treatment
from The Chronicle--which had, in fact, temporarily suppressed some of his
lettersand yet, he never wrote to the LA Times again.  His remaining letters
all went to The Chronicle.

So his motive for writing to The Times, besides the Pleasanton clue, was
strictly to drum up more interest in the Riverside link (Riverside being much
closer to Los Angeles than San Francisco).  Among other things, this tells us
that the Zodiacs audience was never intended to be restricted to the San
Francisco Bay Area.

His work was aimed at the whole world.


Lake Tahoe Card

The Lake Tahoe Card was mailed March 22, 1971 to Paul Avery at The SF
Chronicle.



The Lake Tahoe Card consists entirely of cut-out phrases pasted on top of an ad
for the Forest Pines condo in Lake Tahoe.

Remember what I said about pi-Day?

It's a phrase consisting of perfect squares, applied to the alphabet.

A = 1, D = 4, I = 9, P = 16, Y = 25

This gives us A-D-I-P-Y, an anagram for "pi-Day".

There are any number of dates that can be thought of as representing pi,
including of course March 14 (3-14, the premiere date for The Mikado).

One of these would be September 7, 1945, 9-7-45, because the numerical
components add up to the alphabet numbers for pi:

9 + 7 = 16 (P)
4 + 5 = 9 (I)

There are, needless to say, many such dates, but 9-7-45 is significant in this
context because it's Michael O'Hare's mothers 38th birthday.

Berta Margoulies was born September 7, 1907; on September 7, 1945, she was 38
years old.  On a person's 38th birthday, he is usually 13,880 DAYS old (38 x
365 = 13,870, plus either 9 or 10 leap year days).

13,880

13     8     8    0     (alphabet numbers)
M     H     H    O

MHHO is Michael Henry O'Hare.  Of course, this is a "fudged" result, since the
letter 'O' would be equal to 15, not zero.  In any case, Gareth Penn discusses
the importance of 9-7-45 to the Zodiac in his book Times 17.

9-7-45

The Zodiac wears a costume at Lake Berryessa to celebrate this date. Michael
OHare was born January 22, 1943. On September 27, 1969, he was 9,745 DAYS old.

Donna Lass is abducted on September 6, 1970 because that celebrates 25 years of
pi-Day. If shed been abducted on September 7, 1970, that would have made it 25
years and 1 day.

25 years from September 7, 1945 is completed on September 6, 1970.

Thats why both Donna Lass and Joan Webster are 25 at their deaths.


Punched Hole

You may have noticed that the Zodiac likes using his hole puncher!

He uses it on The Hole Card (October 5,1970).

He uses it on The Lake Tahoe Card (March 22, 1971).

I mentioned that the Zodiac runs the puncher along the edge of the card to
create the metaphor of 180? for a secret identity.

There is also a hole punched in the middle of The Lake Tahoe Card.




If the hole is measured like an x/y coordinate, one will find that the x-value
is

97 millimeters from the left margin,

and the y-value is

45 millimeters up from the bottom.

The hole in the card is 97mm/45mm.

I. e., we have the same measurement in millimeters on The Lake Tahoe Card
(9745), that the Zodiac celebrated in days with the Lake Berryessa murder
(9745).

Thus, the punched hole is not just a punched hole.

It is, in effect, a circle, standing for the date 9-7-45.

In a sense, The Zodiac Project has come full circle with the Donna Lass murder.


Donna Lass Review

To reiterate:


  1. The Donna Lass murder is predicted by the Timex left in Riverside.

  2. 12:22 is the clock face time of the border at Lake Tahoe.

  3. Donna LASS is another name for a virginal girl.

  4. Donna Lass is buried at 739 Clay Street in Ss Chinatown (actually across
the street).

  5. 739 Clay Street is along the south leg of the Zodias radian.

  6. 739 Clay Street houses a USGS benchmark, BM 54.

  7. Gareth Pens phone # in 1982 contains the murder dat90670.

  8. The zip code of Stateline (89449) spells out Day 223 of Year89.

  9. The Hole Card contains the date of the buriaOctober 5, 1970.

10. The skeletons on The Halloween Card represent the two buried victims.

11. The two buried Zodiac victims are Donna Lass and Joan Webster.

12. Js skeleton is loose because shs still alive when is mailed.

13. It is Joan Webster who is doomed, NOT Paul Avery.

14. The skeleton on the cover tells us the next victim is 14 (years old).

15. A PUMPKIN has been pasted over the cover skeletos crotch.

16. PUMPKIN and DRAGON contain the same prime factor, 2521.

17. The PUMPKIN means Donna Lass is buried under (at) DRAGON Plaza.

18. 2521 is the same as 19-89 in Binary math.

19. The hole punched in The Lake Tahoe Card is at 97mm/45mm.

20. The hole denotes the Pi-Day date, 9-7-45.


I've split this chapter into two parts.  Part 1 follows the format of the
earlier book chapters.  Part 2 will be interactive, because I want the reader
to follow my path from the benchmark disc at 739 Clay Street . . .



  . . . across the street into Portsmouth Square Park, to the exact location of
Donna Lass's burial position.  I've had any number of emails over the past
several months, going back to 2010, with readers asking me to please post the
rest of the book chapters!

Well, there's a reason for the interruption, but I think the subject worthy of
a separate chapter (or sub-chapter, if you will).  Something very significant
happened last August, just as this website was getting under way, and I
probably need to discuss it in detail.  So I'll be doing that in Part 2, and
I'll have the reader clicking on internet links so he can follow my path
online.

Let's meet at the door of the storefront at 739 Clay Street!



This is actually John Storey's photo from 1990; I don't think the sidewalk on
Clay Street looks like this any more, plus according to Ricardo the benchmark
disc (visible above in the white wall) has since been painted over.  But we'll
meet at the door of the virtual storefront!

One word of warning: in Dante's Inferno, there's a moment near the end of the
poem where the poet looks directly into the face of The Devil.  This will
happen to the reader in Part 2.  There's nothing I can do to prepare you for
that moment, and I won't even be standing beside you the way Virgil stands
beside Dante, but I thought I'd mention it before it happens.

I don't want a stream of readers trekking like zombies across country, showing
up at my back door and mouthing the word, "How?"

As I said to someone last August, If you knew more about the case, you'd have a
different opinion.  Trust me.

Burial Location

I said in the last episode that this section, covering the burial location of
Donna Lass, would be interactive. I will give the reader places to go to on the
Internet. The reader will be told what to look for and where to go look for it.
I do things this way to demonstrate that the burial location isn't some random
spot I stumbled over.

I also said there will come a moment when the reader is in exactly the same
position Dante is in at the end of The Inferno, when he reaches the 9th Circle
of Hell and finds himself staring directly into the face (actually the THREE
faces) of The Devil.

If you're someone who's rejected everything I've said up until now, don't
worry.  Your blindness will protect you. You can stare into The Devil's eyes
all day long and you won't see a thing.

If, on the other hand, you've begun to suspect that what I'm saying is actually
the truth . . . well, I can't save you from what you're about to witness, any
more than I could save myself.

And I didn't see it 20 years ago; I saw it for the very first time last August
(2010).

That's why it's taken me so long to get to it here.

There's a scene in Robert A. Heinlein's short story, "By His Bootstraps", in
which the protagonist is using a Time Gate to get a glimpse of a race called
The Timeless Ones that had taken over the Earth. They are long gone by the time
he gains access to the machine, but he wants to see what they looked like. He
moves quickly backward in time on the screen, sees a passing shadow, and then
shifts the controls forward to bring the being into focus.

In the next moment, he realizes that he is a mile or so away from the screen
and has been screaming at the top of his lungs. He walks back to the screen,
eyes averted, and shuts the viewer off. One glimpse of the being has turned his
hair white.

I don't know if what you're about to witness will have that effect on you. It
might. As I said, there are tourists here from Zodiac message boards who are
immune to such things, just as there are American tourists in Europe whose eyes
glaze over at the art to be seen there.

You wonder why they bothered to make the trip.

Those of you capable of recognizing the implications of what you see will be
forever changed.

But first, let's cover the basic logic here and then we'll get down to
specifics.

Radian Review

The Zodiac killer sent a Phillips 66 map with The Mt. Diablo Letter of June 26,
1970.

In a postscript to his letter of July 26, 1970, the Zodiac said, "The Mt.
Diablo code concerns radians &# inches along the radians."

As I said earlier, when one places a radian (57.29?) on a map of the Bay Area .
. . with its apex on the above circled point of Mt. Diablo (VABM 3849) . . . so
that the south leg of the angle goes through the intersection of Washington &
Cherry Street (where Paul Stine was murdered) . . . the north leg goes through
the murder scenes at Lake Herman Road and Blue Rock Springs.



If the reader is familiar with the true crime accounts of the Zodiac murders,
he will note that the above diagram includes, on the north leg, two "canonical"
Zodiac venues (Lake Herman Road and Blue Rock Springs), and one such venue on
the south leg (Washington & Cherry).

Gareth Penn, whom I believe to be a Zodiac conspirator, told me more than two
decades ago that there was a central design element to The Zodiac Project.

That central design element was symmetry.

But the Mt. Diablo Radian didn't conform to that design element, at least, not
as it stood.

Since I knew the south leg of the radian was missing a point, and since I knew
that one Bay Area Zodiac victim's body had never been found, it made sense to
me that Donna Lass was buried somewhere along that south leg.

But where?
1990-2010

The Zodiac was using USGS markers as the basis for his designs. Vertical Angle
Bench Mark 3849, the circled apex of The Mt. Diablo Radian, was a spot
significant enough that the Zodiac made sure he left the location on the map
uncovered by his crosshairs.



So the question became: Was there a USGS benchmark on that south leg?

I checked the USGS quadrangle "San Francisco North", and found TWO.

But one of those, BM8 at the Embarcadero, had been destroyed.

The only LIVE USGS benchmark on that south leg was BM54, which was located at
739 Clay Street in Chinatown.



In 1990, when I wrote the original edition of this book, the storefront at 739
Clay Street was called Dragon Plaza. The photograph above, from my book, was
taken by a professional photographer I hired, John Storey of The San Francisco
Examiner.

Here are two more photos by John Storey. The first is the benchmark disc
itself.



The second is the storefront as it looked at street level in 1990.



Here is a Google Earth image of the storefront as it looks today (or recently,
anyway).



It looks as if the disc has been removed, but Ricardo from Project MK-Zodiac
tells me it's only been painted over.



I assumed, in 1990, that Donna Lass would logically be buried in the closest
open ground to the BM54 disc. So I had John Storey walk up to the benchmark
disc of BM54 and photograph it. He was then to move backward in the direction
of the nearest open ground and photograph THAT. When I saw the picture of
DRAGON PLAZA above, besides realizing that it was what was referenced by the
Zodiac's Little Dragon Card of April 28, 1970, I also realized that the open
ground in the foreground was where Donna Lass was buried.

Keep in mind that in 1990, getting to Donna Lass's body meant physically
digging it up. So going to the police with my project didn't hold much promise.
I DID go to the police anyway; the first edition of my book was called the
POLICE EDITION because that's who received books first in August 1990. I
offered to pay to have the lawn where the women are standing in the picture dug
up, but none of the police agencies took me up on the offer.

By 2000, I'd been made aware of GPR machines. Ground Penetrating Radar allows a
surface machine to locate objects underground. The machine itself looks like a
lawn mower except that it's a lot quieter, and it can be rolled over ground
while the operator looks at a screen up where his hands are. I contacted Ken
Blom of Norcal Geophysics and offered him the job. Blom was willing to do it,
but only if SFPD agreed to allow it.

I then got Detective Tom Conner of South Lake Tahoe Police Department, who had
an active Donna Lass investigation, to contact SFPD directly. As you might have
guessed already, SFPD's Kelly Carroll vetoed the idea, even though it didn't
involve breaking any ground. Carroll said he didn't want the media "circus"
associated with such a stunt to distract from his police work. Exactly what
work on the case I was distracting him from, I haven't figured out.

Two years later, ABC News did a Primetime Live show on the DNA investigation
involving Zodiac letters. Although the show itself presented the angle as a
major breakthrough in the case, the effort on the part of SFPD can best be
described as half-hearted. Almost immediately after the show aired, SFPD put
their Zodiac investigation on permanent hold.

I then contacted the San Francisco Medical Examiner and suggested his lab at
the very least compare the DNA from the Zodiac envelopes with the full profile
that was left on Cheri Bates's bloody palm. All this got me was a nasty
telephone answering machine message from Kelly Carroll, telling me to route any
further suggestions through his own office. This amounted to telling me not to
MAKE any further suggestions, so I didn't bother getting back to him.

In July 2010, I was just getting ready to publish this website when I happened
to be in a chat room with Ricardo from MK-Zodiac. Ricardo told me he worked
about a block from the 700 block of Clay Street. When I mentioned BM54 and
Dragon Plaza, he said that the storefront, which was now called DRAGON SEED,
was across the street from "the park".

I said, "WHAT park?"

Dragon Seed was directly across the street from Portsmouth Square Park, a
Chinatown landmark that consisted of an entire city block, with playgrounds,
benches, and a garage.

I walked around like a zombie from a George Romero movie for days, trying to
make sense of this new information. I SHOULD have realized that a park was
across the street in 1990, because, as I found out by looking at John Storey's
contact sheets, he'd included shots of the park on them, he just hadn't sent me
any individual prints of them. And I can't blame John for that oversight, since
I'd been so focused on BM54 and what was closest to it. At the time, I actually
assumed that the shot of the grass, the tree, the park bench, and the two women
talking was a traffic island in the middle of the street. But it didn't matter;
I was interested in the closest open ground to the BM54 disc.

The first thing that occurred to me was that the presence of the park actually
made sense. The Zodiac had used the term PARK numerous times in his
correspondence, as if hinting at its significance. More significantly, using a
USGS benchmark disc directly across the street from a park as a marker gave him
a lot more options for a burial site.

His implication was clear: Donna Lass was buried somewhere in Portsmouth Square
Park.

But where? Tom Voigt had correctly podcast that the park was almost entirely
covered in concrete, and Ed Neil had, also correctly, pointed out the several
renovations the park had undergone since October 1970 (assuming the mailing of
The Hole Card fixed the time of the actual burial). Surely any renovation would
turn up a buried body?

Nope, that's wrong, as it turns out.

There's one area in the park that contains open ground that hasn't, as far as
I've been able to tell, been significantly renovated since 1960.

But before I show it to you, let's reframe the question.

If Donna Lass is buried SOMEWHERE in Portsmouth Square Park, where SPECIFICALLY
is that spot?

To answer that question, I took a look at Portsmouth Square Park, but there's
something I need to tell the reader first so that he knows what I knew before I
took that look.



When I talked about The Halloween Card, I said there were TWO skeletons
contained in the card. One was on the front of the card; it was actually PART
OF THE CARD. That's because the person that skeleton represented, Donna Lass,
was already dead and buried by the time the card was sent. That's the reason
the skeleton on the front of the card can't move.



The other skeleton, inside the card, isn't actually attached to the card. It
can still move. This is because, when the card was mailed on October 28, 1970,
Joan Webster was still alive. It would be 11 years and one month before Joan
Webster was abducted and murdered on November 28, 1981, after last being seen
in Logan Airport in Boston.

Donna Lass and Joan Webster were mirror-image victims. As The Hole Card
suggests, they were the last two cards dealt by the Zodiac, both face DOWN. One
was on the East Coast, one was on the West Coast. Each was 25 years old at the
time of her abduction and murder.

And there is at least one other very striking similarity between the two young
women.

EASTER TERMINUS

The reader will recall that I said all Zodiac victims have some significant
relationship to the word EASTER, or to Easter as a concept.

The names of DAVID FARADAY, DARLENE FERRIN, and SHELLY HOLMBOE all contain the
word EASTER in Morse code. BETTY LOU JENSEN is a collateral victim, as Michael
Mageau would have been if he'd died at Blue Rock Springs; the actual target in
both crimes was the driver of the car. The names of CHERI BATES and ROBERT
SALEM contain EASTER as an anagram. CECELIA SHEPARD belonged to a sect (the 7th
Day Adventists) that didn't celebrate Easter (since it celebrated the sabbath
on Saturday), a sect founded by a man named JOSEPH BATES (the name of CHERI's
father, and a name contained within her own name, Cheri JOSEPHine BATES). PAUL
STINE's cab left the stand in front of the St. Francis Hotel to be flagged down
by the Zodiac; St. Francis, who gave his name to both the city Stine lived in
and the school he attended (San Francisco State), founded his order on Good
Friday.

The other concept the Zodiac is preoccupied with is The Terminus. The last day
of the Roman year, February 23rd (2-23), is the day stones consecrated by an
animal sacrifice were buried to mark off property in the Roman state. The
stones were, at least symbolically, the equivalent of modern USGS benchmarks.
I've given any number of examples of 23/23, 2x23, and 2-23 in the Zodiac lore.
I've referred to the Zodiac's ultimate target date, Friday, August 11, 1989, as
The Terminus Event.

Those two words, EASTER and TERMINUS, are of prime importance to the Zodiac.

Thus, we would expect the two buried victims, DONNA LASS and JOAN WEBSTER, to
both be associated with those words: EASTER, because all Zodiac victims have
some relationship to it, and TERMINUS, because the two buried victims were
intended to be dug up ONLY after The Terminus Event.

Remember what the Zodiac says in The Mt. Diablo Letter?

You have untill next fall to dig it up.

DONNA LASS and JOAN WEBSTER are the buried bombs he's talking about.

Like the character in "By His Bootstraps", we're going to move backward in
time. We're going to start with the victim who was killed eleven years in the
future, and then look back.

Where was Joan Webster last seen alive?

At the baggage claim area of the Eastern Airlines Terminal.

EASTERn Airlines TERMINAL

EASTER                 TERMINAL

Am I suggesting that the Zodiac somehow knew, when he began following Cheri
Bates's car up that alley a block from The RCC Library that evening in 1966,
that he would abduct and kill Joan Webster at Logan Airport's Eastern Airlines
Terminal that night in 1981?

No.

In fact, the Zodiac presumably could NOT have planned anything relating to
Logan Airport's Eastern Airlines Terminal in 1966, because it wasn't even
constructed until 1969. Ironically, The EAT was designed by the same man,
Minoru Yamasaki, who designed The World Trade Center.



Yamasaki's design for the WTC was completed in 1965, but the complex itself
wasn't finished until 1972. The lead time for the Eastern Airlines Terminal
would not have been seven years, but the initial planning for it would have
preceded its construction by several years. One can be sure that Harvard's
Department of Architecture, where Michael O'Hare was a graduate student, would
have been aware of the project by 1966 or 1967.

I'm suggesting that the Zodiac created a structure into which he plugged
appropriate victims as they presented themselves to him. I'm suggesting that
structure was sufficiently flexible to allow him to give the appearance of
selecting both individual victims and specific venues years ahead of time, when
he was actually picking victims whose names were appropriate, and choosing to
move on them when they were in areas that were appropriate (or abducting them
and then putting them in those areas while making it look as if they went there
under their own power).

To put this another way, I don't know HOW, specifically, they pulled off the
abduction and murder of Joan Webster, though Michael O'Hare was a professor at
Harvard with degrees in Architecture, and Joan Webster was an architectural
grad student. It's not hard to imagine why she would have accepted his offer of
a ride back to campus that night, and we know for a fact that Michael O'Hare
was in Logan Airport that evening.

Geophysics

Where was Joan Webster last seen alive?

At the baggage claim area of the Eastern Airlines Terminal.

EASTERn Airlines TERMINAL

EASTER                 TERMINUS

I didnt realize it at the time, but the Zodiac left a clue to the location of
Donna Lasss body after the fact, when he abducted and murdered Joan Webster.

Donna Lass and Joan Webster were mirror-images.

That meant something about their deaths had to be the same, just as the two
drivers in Vallejo both had the initials DF. Just as the Lake Berryessa
victims, who were 7th Day Adventists (a sect founded by a man named Joseph
Bates), were linked to the victim in Riverside (Cheri JOSEPHine BATES).

I had looked at Portsmouth Square Park and seen those two words on a marker
there, but their connection to Joan Webster didnt hit me right away. I was
getting off a bus in Oakland, the university section of Pittsburgh where I
worked in August 2010, when I suddenly remembered where Joan Webster was last
seen alive.

I immediately rehired my photographer from 1990, John Storey of The San
Francisco Examiner, and had the marker in Portsmouth Square Park photographed
in context. I did what research I could about previous park renovations; San
Franciscos City Planning Office wasnt exactly forthcoming.

In the weeks and months that followed, I contacted literally dozens of
geophysical companies in The San Francisco Bay Area. Several expressed
willingness, even enthusiasm, about my GPR project, until I told them exactly
what I was looking for. At that point, they all stopped answering my emails.

Right around the time Donna Lass was buried, which was October 1970, a Sunoco
gas station on the corner of Murray and Bartlett Streets in the Squirrel Hill
section of Pittsburgh was being turned into an office building. Since winter
was approaching, the contractors decided to hire construction workers who would
ordinarily be taking off because of the cold weather. They figured they could
save money by offering jobs during a down time of the year. What they didnt
figure was that, when they dug down to sub-basement level, they would uncover
two railroad car-sized gas tanks. They had expected just the plastic tanks
under the current pumps. Now, they were screwed. They couldnt risk using blow
torches on the metal tanks in February; even a little puff of gasoline vapor
would have been enough to erase that block from city street maps.

So they stopped work and waited for the spring thaw.

One of the things this tells us, if youre paying attention, is that GPR
technology wasnt available back in 1970. If it had been, the contractors would
certainly have used it before they broke ground.

Im in the same situation as those contractors. I wrote to the mayor of San
Francisco after the geophysical companies I tried to hire didnt respond. I
even contacted some VIPs in Chinatown. At the moment, the ground around me is
frozen, but maybe I can thaw it by providing a little bit of daylight?

Portsmouth Square Park

Let's find Donna Lass.

It's all yours, reader:

PORTSMOUTH SQUARE PARK

You need to think about this, now that you've seen it with your own eyes.

I've pointed out the importance of those two words: EASTER and TERMINUS.

I've pointed out that there is only one USGS bench mark on the south leg of the
Mt. Diablo Radian, BM54 located at 739 Clay Street.



And THREE people--Ricardo, Tom Voigt, and Ed Neil--have pointed out my colossal
ignorance in NOT knowing that Portsmouth Square Park was across the street from
that storefront.

So . . . what are the chances that my mistake actually leads us to the
solution?

Think about that, reader.

How likely is it that a place I didn't even know existed in July 2010 contains
a marker with those two words on it (EASTER and TERMINUS)?

Both Donna Lass and Joan Webster would be listed as possible Zodiac victims in
various books and on various websites, even if no one had ever heard of Ray
Grant.

We know Joan Webster was last seen alive in the baggage claim area of Logan
Airport's Terminal A, The Eastern Airlines Terminal.

I didn't take a dart and throw it at a map of San Francisco. I started with The
Mt. Diablo Radian, which is apexed on a USGS bench mark (VABM 3849), and found
the only OTHER bench mark on the south leg of that angle (739 Clay Street).
Across the street from the BM54 bench mark disc is Portsmouth Square Park,
which contains a marker with those two words on it.



I hired John Storey again last year, to walk into Portsmouth Square Park and
take more pictures for me. This time, instead of a USGS Benchmark, I asked him
to photograph that marker. As I did in 1990, I asked John to start at the
marker and gradually move backward. I will walk the reader through the
sequence. These photos were taken on Wednesday, August 18, 2010.

The first is the marker itself:



The marker set in place, with the railing above the Portsmouth Square Garage
doors below:



The marker showing traffic on Kearny Street below:



The marker, the park, Kearny Street, and the foliage on the hillside to the
right and below:



Several steps back, the TransAmerica Pyramid is visible above the background
buildings:

 

Note both The Garden Restaurant across Kearny Street and the car going into the
Portsmouth Square Garage doors below:



Now here is the same spot, looking up from the garage doors on Kearny Street
below:



Garden Restaurant SF

I promised the reader the chance to find the burial spot himself, and I'm about
to make good on that promise.

1. You want to start by Googling THE GARDEN RESTAURANT SAN FRANCISCO.

2. There should be a link that says MAPS.GOOGLE under THE GARDEN RESTAURANT.

3. Click on that link and then click on the Street View.

4. The sign with the words THE GARDEN RESTAURANT was dark red; now it's yellow.

5. Now go to the navigation dial in the upper left.

6. Move the 'N' on the dial from a quarter TO the hour to a quarter AFTER.

7. You should be looking at the Portsmouth Square Garage doors.

8. See the hillside to the left?

The Portsmouth Square Garage was built in 1960. The city just celebrated its
50th anniversary last year. I'm sure the machines which spit out tickets have
changed, and maybe the signs and the painted lines have changed, but the garage
doors haven't. And if the garage doors haven't changed, it's reasonable to
assume that hillside has gone essentially undisturbed.

A friend of mine is a graduate student in anthropology. She's done some
digging. She says what the Zodiac probably did was freeze the body and then
compress it until it was suitcase-sized, and finally bury it about four feet
down. That depth would be enough to sidestep any superficial landscaping, and
might even put the body beyond the range of GPR.

The area to the left of the garage doors is bordered by concrete. I'm guessing
it's 200 or 300 square feet. I'd start up near the marker and work my way down.





1974

Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** Gareth Penn Articles ******

Are we having fun on this website, or what?!

I posted most of the letters I received from Gareth Penn back in the 1980s. 
Here I'll post most of the handouts Gareth sent to me, which is to say his
various articles relating to the Zodiac case prior to and following publication
of Times 17.  I will begin with the infamous Mensa Bulletin article of July/
August 1985, "The Calculus of Evil".












































Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** Gareth Penn Letters ******

I just bought a new Fujitsu scanner that allows for high-quality scanning of
documents many pages long.  Prior to this I haven't done much scanning because
I had an HP flatbed scanner which you have to load a page at a time, and the
pages are hard to read once you've posted them onto a website.  I'm hoping I
can now scan all the editions of my book right onto the website, plus lots of
other case documents I've accumulated over the past 27 years.

Speaking of things that began 27 years ago, I will be presenting numerous
Gareth Penn mailings from the 1980s.  I will start with the letters Gareth
addressed to me personally.  Back in the 1980s, if you had an article you
wanted your fans to read, you didn't have the recourse of posting it on a
website, since there were no websites.  Instead, you typed it up, had it
photocopied, and then mailed it off in manila envelopes to everyone on your
mailing list.

For every letter Gareth addressed to me personally, there's at least one typed
presentation of some point (usually cryptographic) he needed to make.  Also
keep in mind that Gareth and I were talking on the phone as often as we were
sending letters back and forth; I don't have transcripts of those calls, but a
few of them bear scrutiny in the light of later events.

I will present the letters addressed to me first, and then do the handouts. 
Since this is new technology to me, I will probably be tweaking the
presentation as I learn more about how to make it look better on the website. 
Also, let me stress that, because I've tried to make the site simpler for me to
add things, I will probably be editing this chapter and adding things to it as
I go, so don't assume you've seen everything if you've only clicked on it once.

As I type these words, it is August 11, 2012, exactly 23 years after the date
of the intended denouement of The Zodiac Project, The Terminus Event of August
11, 1989.

Ironically, exactly TWO years ago, a poster on ZKF who calls himself ZSEARCHER,
but whose real name is Tom DiMarco, came up with this comment on his own
"Where's The Evidence" thread over there:

by Zsearcher ? Wed Aug 11, 2010 2:41 pm
Farmer keeps on talking about how Penn and Grant were buddies so he should know
the kind of person he is.

This is Penn's take on the relationship from his blog:

I do not deny knowing Ray Grant. I was asked, Why didnt you ever sue your
friend Ray?, and I responded, I dont have a friend named Ray, nor do I know
anyone, even casually, with that name. The last Ray I can remember having
known& (see above). You will note that I was not asked if I knew Ray Grant; I
was asked why I wasnt suing my friend Ray [no surname] Its important, when
you hold someone responsible for something he has said, that you quote what he
actually said and not something that you have fabricated. I do not, in fact,
have a friend named Ray, I do not currently know anyone with that name, and
until you jogged my memory, I did not recall Ray Grant (you will note that I
did not categorically deny ever having known anyone named Ray other than the
ones I cited; I wrote The last Ray I can remember). Ray Grant is just one of
hundreds of people with whom I corresponded a quarter century ago, most of
whose names I have not retained. I would not characterize him as a friend. He
presented to me a convoluted theory about the Zodiacs use of firearms,
apparently seeking my endorsement. I didnt agree with him and told him so. He
seemed to feel that he was entitled to my endorsement and became very bitter
and accusatory. I havent read anything he has had to say since then and so
have no idea what his current theories are. I gather from what you say that he
has spent the last quarter century pouting. Now that he knows that I havent
been paying attention to his slandering of me, he will probably pout even more.
I regret that you feel that I am high-handed and supercilious, but I got the
feeling that he felt the same way about me simply because I didnt buy his
theory. I dont remember specifically, but I may have sent him those photos
back in the days before I turned him into an implacable foe by having the
temerity to disagree with him. Apparently, some people believe that because all
men are created equal, the same is true of all theories, and I suspect that by
not applying the principles of Jeffersonian democracy to other peoples ideas,
you run the risk of being called high-handed and supercilious.

Hmmm, 25 years ago Grant got snubbed by Penn. Five years later according to
Grant, Penn is the Zodiac.

Going by that logic, 25 years ago Tom DiMarco must have walked up to the actor
Peter O'Toole and asked for an autograph . . . and got snubbed.  Now I know why
DiMarco thinks Lawrence of Arabia is the Zodiac killer.

As far as my being snubbed by Penn . . . didn't happen.  And here are the
letters to prove it.

Let's look at a critical passage from Gareth's post above:

He presented to me a convoluted theory about the Zodias use of firearms,
apparently seeking my endorsement. I didt agree with him and told him so. He
seemed to feel that he was entitled to my endorsement and became very bitter
and accusatory.

Gareth is talking here about page 5 from the December 14, 1986 letter below. 
The theory he is disagreeing with can be found elsewhere right on this website:

see: Gun Numbers 1-3

I mentioned my theory to Gareth, he clearly disagreed with it in the letter, I
wrote back answering his own points . . . and then we both dropped the
subject.  If I became very bitter and accusatory, you sure couldn't tell it
from his own letters to me.  And Gareth went on writing to me, quite cordially,
until his last letter in May 1990.  Gareth sent the last three letters of the
correspondence and even sent me pictures of himself and his then-spouse, Diane
Merrill, including their wedding photo at a Mensa event.



What I said to Tom DiMarco back then, I will say yet again:

If you knew more about the case, you'd have a different opinion.  Trust me.

Where was I?  Oh, yes.  Here are the letters Gareth sent to me, not including
the hand-outs.  I may post those as well in the near future.  I'm including
what looks like a hand-out that Gareth sent on May 22, 1990, because I may be
the only one who received it.

I posted these pages in the wee hours of Saturday morning.  I was looking at
the website late this evening (still Saturday) and noticed that most of the
pages scan with a yellowish tint, presumably from the age of the paper, but
some others scan as white.  I'm not sure if this is because of some glitch in
the scanner software or if those particular pages were copies of the
originals.  If the reader will go to my video from last October, Zodiac Killer
Solved 13 . . .

Zodiac Killer Solved 13

 . . . I hold up the box I've kept the letters in for the past quarter-century
or so.  I did notice, as I was going through the various papers in the box,
that some I'd copied for one reason or another (mostly the handouts, but also
some letters).  When I did the scanning, I thought I'd used the originals when
there was more than one copy, but I suppose it's possible some copies got mixed
in with the originals.  The reader will notice that most of the first pages of
the letters feature the outline of a rusty paper clip that's been removed
before scanning.  In any case, these pages are what Gareth mailed to me for the
most part, with a possibly copied page mixed in here and there.  It occurs to
me now that I may have copied some original pages to make them more readable
when I was scanning them onto ZKS a couple years ago; the white pages look
easier to read than the yellow ones.

If the reader has any trouble reading what's scanned here, he can probably fix
the problem by using the ZOOM function on his web browser to blow the page up a
bit. 
















































































I just found page 4 of this letter; I'm sure I still have the third page
somewhere but haven't found it yet.  In any case, page 4 is quite interesting
since it includes information about Hugh Penn.















































As I said, I will be adding to this article in the very near future as I sift
through other stuff Gareth sent me.  In the meantime, I want the reader to
notice something EXTREMELY ODD about that last page I scanned, just above.

I cited three instances in the article 1980/1981 of Gareth citing facts that
were blatantly untrue.


1. Gareth cites a 2nd page of text in The Mt. Diablo Letter, when there IS no
2nd page of text.

2. Gareth cites a book at The Napa City & County Library, when there IS no such
book.

3. Gareth cites bombs w/timers igniting The Atlas Peak Fire, when no such
devices were found.


Now we have yet a 4th example of the well-educated, meticulous Gareth Penn with
his degree in library science from Cal-Berkeley, citing a raw fact that is
simply not true:

" . . . Benchmark 9, at The Greyhound bus terminal in downtown Boston, where
Joan Webster's murderer left her suitcase . . ."

It's true that Joan Webster's murderer left her suitcase in a storage locker at
the bus terminal.

But The Greyhound Bus Terminal doesn't contain USGS Benchmark 9.  In fact, that
building doesn't contain a USGS benchmark of any designation.  The benchmark
found at that location on that USGS quadrangle is, in fact, located at 175
Berkeley Street, the address of The Liberty Mutual Building.  And the benchmark
in that building was releveled in 1966, and is, in fact, Benchmark 3, NOT
Benchmark 9 (though granted, the maps still say "BM9").  Here is a copy of the
USGS quadrangle "Boston South" with Gareth's annotations in red; BM9 is in the
center:



Now the reader is probably chuckling to himself about how the great Gareth Penn
could make such an honest mistake.  Except it's not an honest mistake.  The
only way you can locate a USGS Benchmark is to find a particular BM designation
on a USGS map and then contact the USGS, at which point they will locate the
data for that benchmark and read it to you over the phone and/or send it to you
in the mail.



Another way of saying this is, You just CAN'T misidentify a USGS benchmark,
because the only way you can get information about one is to contact the USGS.

And you certainly can't mistake it for a location that DOESN'T contain a
benchmark.

In other words, Gareth didn't misidentify that benchmark by mistake.

He did it on purpose.

So let me ask my pet question again:

At what point does Gareth Penn's behavior (and Michael O'Hare's behavior, for
that matter) become so BIZARRE that a Zodiac hobbyist will actually begin to
question it?

Oh, wait.  I was sifting through the box of letters from my Secret Penn Pal,
this time looking for his article/handouts, and I found another entire letter
from December 23, 1986.  What's particularly interesting about this letter is
that it comes just 9 days after the alleged argument between Gareth and myself
(December 14, 1986--see letter above) that supposedly resulted in my becoming
Gareth's "implacable foe".

I want Tom DiMarco to pay special attention to this missive/missile, since it
pretty well nukes his theory that Gareth "snubbed" me, which then resulted in
my accusation that Gareth is the Zodiac.  Gareth IS the Zodiac, mind you, or
one of the four, but I didn't come to that conclusion because I was bitter
about his treatment of me.  Note that Gareth is soliciting a special favor from
me in the letter; that strikes me as being the opposite of a "snub".  Also note
that Gareth acknowledges the counter-arguments in my own letter and then
immediately asks for my help, demonstrating that there was nothing particularly
heated about our disagreement.

As I said, If you knew more about the case, you'd have a different opinion.

Trust me.



 

Again, I will be adding more material here in the very near future.



Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]

















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
home page



Hi! And welcome to the website edition of my book about the Zodiac killer!

If you're coming here for the first time, I recommend taking a look at my other
website, Zodiac Killer Timeline, when you get the chance.  That site
concentrates on conventional aspects of the Zodiac murders, and, as such, is a
kind of necessary bridge between the standard True Crime accounts of the Zodiac
events you'll find elsewhere and the cryptographic approach you'll find here. 
ZKT.com is currently under construction, but I hope to have it up and running
soon.

I will be pasting the book onto this site a chapter at a time, as time permits.
This allows me to sidestep the obstacle of actually finishing the book prior to
publishing it! People can come to the site and digest as little or as much of
it as they wish, and then come back a few days later and possibly find more.

This book is meant to be read in sequence. If you try reading it out of
sequence, it won't make sense to you. Trust me. So resist the urge to skip
ahead.  You are being baby-stepped through a relatively complex series of
suppositions and explications, a narrative which is difficult enough to swallow
if you do it in the recommended order.

This book doesn't have a single crucial point to build toward, like a drum
roll. It's an example of Argument By Attrition. So meet that argument halfway
by digesting it in the recommended order. The further into the book you get,
the more this strategy will make sense to you.



Next: INTRO SECTION





Home Page

Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
                          ****** Intro Section ******

This book is unique.

It purports to solve a mysterythe Zodiac serial murder casewhich has puzzled
the world for decades, and which most of the police agencies involved have
effectivelyif not officially--declared unsolvable.

It presents a solution far more elaborate--and much more significant in its
impact on the world--than has ever been imagined by even the most ardent
Zodiologist.

And it suggests, as the ultimate end of The Zodiac Project, a criminal
catastrophe scheduled for the late summer of 1989: The Terminus Event.

The Terminus Event would be similar in scope to the Oklahoma City Bombing of
1995, but perhaps, in figurative terms, more closely resemble September 11th,
2001.

What would have happened if, back in early December of 1941, American military
leaders had taken the Purple Code warnings about Pearl Harbor seriously?

They obviously didnt, but that mistake informed their subsequent decisions at
Midway, where knowledge of the Japanese Naval Code led to the most decisive
military victory in American history.  This historical precedent was not lost
on the Zodiac conspirators; there are, in fact, numerous references to Midway
throughout the Zodiac literature.

Thus, in addition to solving the Zodiac mystery, this book tells the story of a
terrible event that was scheduled a quarter-century in advance . . . but didnt
happen, because the Zodiac code was broken in time.   

This book may appeal to puzzle people, because it solves the most
diabolicaland I use that term metaphoricallypuzzle ever put before the
public.

And, while you don't have to be a genius to understand it, being bright, or at
least having an active imagination, will definitely help.


Preface

Solving serial murder cases is about looking for patterns.

The murders may seem completely random, and aspects of the crimes may be
happenstance, but somewhere, tucked in with the details of each individual
death, theres a common element.  It's up to the investigator to identify that
element and find the pattern leading to the perpetrator. 

The Zodiac murders contain so many disparate elements as to defy description,
and discourage even a simple outline.  Most of its detectivesprofessional and
amateurhave eventually thrown up their hands at the information overload the
case presents.

The pattern suggested by this book is so complex and unprecedented, it is
likely to short-circuit the brains of all but the most patient and intelligent
readers.

I cant help thatthe solution is what it is.  The best I can do is present it
as simply as possible.  
And, although this book offers an argument, I dont pretend it would stand up
in court . . . at least, not by itself.  Im sure most experts on the Zodiac
case will dismiss it out of hand, and thats fine with me.  I offer this
solution because its my duty to do so, all the more so since Im confident
its the correct one.

My theory assumes, for example, that the Zodiac murders were the brain child of
four people, though only one of them physically committed the crimes.

It also assumes that the murders themselves, though they may seem senseless
individually, do make sense in context.

Finally, Im not just a casual spectator turned amateur journalist; I was
actively involved in what ultimately happened, although not as a perpetrator.

In fact, one of the Zodiac killers letters was written about me.

So, before I tell you who the Zodiac killer is . . . Id better tell you who I
am.


My Story

I was born in New York City, on 34th Street in midtown Manhattan, in April
1951.

My family moved to Pittsburgh in 1955 when my dads company, Crucible Steel,
relocated its corporate headquarters.  I attended St. Philomena parochial
school, Taylor Allderdice public high school, and finally The University of
Pittsburgh, where I received a BA in English Writing in 1972.  Here's the
picture from my high school yearbook; I'm way down on the lower left of the
page, as if I'd been named Most Likely To Get To The Bottom Of Things.



Largely as a result of the notoriety of New York City's Son of Sam case in the
summer of 1977, I developed an interest in serial killers.  The idea of someone
terrorizing an entire city by walking up to strangers in cars with a .44 hand
gun and blasting away, and then smugly writing to the newspapers about it, was
morbidly fascinating to me.  It became even more so when I found out David
Berkowitz was a postal worker, just like me.

Little did I know that I would eventually become a well-known researcher and
investigator of the Zodiac killer, who undoubtedly inspired The Son of Sam,
even down to his killing of couples in cars, and who was the first serial
killer to write to the newspapers (since Jack The Ripper's famous letter was
probably a hoax, and The Mad Bomber didn't actually kill anyone). 

The best example of the investigative material available on serial killers back
then was The Only Living Witness, a book by Steven Michaud and Hugh Aynesworth
about Ted Bundy, which consisted largely of conversations in which Bundy,
unwilling to admit his guilt, "speculated" about how a killer like the one he
was accused of being might go about collecting his victims.  The two reporters
writing the book, and the reader, had to assume that Bundy was giving them a
First Person account of each murder, in effect, a How-To.

In 1984, I joined Mensa, a society for people with IQ scores in the upper 2% of
the population.


Zodiac Murders

I never went looking for the Zodiac killer.  He came looking for me.

One day in 1985, he showed up in my mailbox.

In the summer of 1985, The Mensa Bulletin carried an article on the Zodiac
murders (The Calculus Of Evil) which suggested that the Zodiac killers
purpose all along had been to create a design on the map, a pattern marked off
by the placement of his victims.



Because of my aforementioned interest in serial killers, I wrote to the author
of the article, one Gareth Penn, who identified then-Harvard lecturer Michael
OHare as the Zodiac killer.  Between 1985 and 1989, Gareth and I corresponded
often and talked on the phone about as often.

I became convinced Michael OHare WAS the Zodiac killer.  But, by 1989, enough
things about Gareth himself didnt add up that I came to believe he must also
be involved . . . in what I will call The Zodiac Project.

The Zodiac Project was intended as a giant puzzle, and Gareths role was to be
its PR man, giving away just enough information to allow the solution to
present itself, if you knew where to look and what you were looking for.

This book presents the solution as I see it.

If you make the same assumptions about the Zodiac killer that I do, everything
he does makes sense.  If you reject those assumptions, the Zodiac killers
actions are nonsensical, and even at times self-defeating and contradictory. 
In any case: this is me, and this is my theory.


Disclaimer

It may seem odd for me to disclaim anything immediately after announcing my
ownership of this theory, but . . .


This book is a simplified version of earlier editions of The Zodiac
MurderSolved!, a new edition which has the benefit of years of hindsight. 
The most recent previous edition was 1994; this edition is 2010/2011.

Because its simplified, I dont do a lot of cryptographic analysis on the
page.  I dont always provide all the dots for you to connect, and at times
going from one dot to another may seem a bit of a stretch.  In any case, I am
sometimes commenting not on what seemed to happen, or what the Zodiac killer
appeared to be saying, but on what I think he intended.  I know many experts on
the case are going to object to this approach.

However, Im presenting a theory of the case as a whole.  So telling me that a
particular reading doesnt follow directly from whats there in front of you
isnt a real objection--at least not to me.

If that bothers you, stop right here.  Not everyone is going to get it", and
after two decades of doing this, I have no illusions that my solution is ever
going to be accepted by more than a handful of people, much less become The
Official Solution.

In other words, no one's forcing you to read this.  But do me one small favor:

Don't object to this book because, "It doesn't PROVE anything!"

You can't PROVE anyone's the Zodiac killer in a book.  You can only do that
outside the pages of a book, and for that matter offline, by providing physical
evidence of guilt.

What you CAN do in a book is make a circumstantial case that someone is the
Zodiac killer, by demonstrating a consistent pattern in the murders and letters
and other events which points to a specific person or persons as being the
author(s).

As Polonius says in Shakespeare's Hamlet, "Though this be madness, yet there is
method in't."

That's EXACTLY what I'm saying about the Zodiac killer; actions that seem
bizarre and even random are, in fact, entirely consistent within a particular
pattern that continually demonstrates itself in his behavior.


Obituary

I've often felt, during the last 20 years, as if I were the protagonist in a
science fiction story, trying to convince people of a fantastic idea that
couldn't possibly be true.  In H. G. Wells's The Time Machine, the Time
Traveler tries to convince his drawing room guests that he's journeyed back
from a place hundreds of thousands of years in the future.

The only physical evidence he has to show for this ordeal are two limp white
flowers, put in his pocket by Weena, the Eloi woman whose life he saved in that
distant time.

The Zodiac Project has always struck me as an example of Morlock Architecture.
The White Sphinx, though imposing in its functional menace, and forbidding in
its dark mystery, also houses a horrifying secret: that it literally and
figuratively eats people.

My own personal time machine has been hijacked and kept inside that structure
the past two decades; this book is my walking inside and dragging my life back
out, into the sunlight.

This book is in memory of


Cheri Bates, who died October 30, 1966

David Faraday and Betty Lou Jensen, who died December 20, 1968

Darlene Ferrin, who died July 5, 1969

Cecelia Ann Shepard, who died September 29, 1969

Paul Stine, who died October 11, 1969

Shelly Holmboe, who died October 19, 1969

Robert Salem, who died March 29, 1970

Donna Lass, who died September 6, 1970

James Scarlet, who died June 18, 1981

and Joan Webster, who died November 28, 1981


I've taken, in recent years, to reading the obituary section of my local
newspaper, not for its details of death, but for its hope and remembrance, for
the messages left there for those who were loved once in life, and are loved
still.

The victims are the white flowers of The Zodiac Project; they are the only
things about it that were not grown in darkness, that still live on in the
faded sunlight of our memories, and are still worth cherishing.

"And I have by me, for my comfort, two strange white flowers - shriveled now,
and brown and flat and brittle - to witness that even when mind and strength
had gone, gratitude and a mutual tenderness still lived on in the heart of
man."
   H. G. Wells, The Time Machine


Michael O'Hare

Most of this book consists of cryptographic material which points to an
identification of Michael OHare as the Zodiac killer.  In this chapter I will
present conventional aspects of Mr. OHares identity, partly to give the
reader some idea of whom Im talking about, and partly to highlight some of the
things Mr. OHare has in common with the Zodiac killer.

Michael Henry OHare (seen here in a recent photo) is the Zodiac killer.



He is the perpetrator of the murder events committed by the Zodiac killer; it
is his face that you see on the Zodiac killer WANTED posters.



The only thing that might eliminate him from suspicion is his real life
identity as an academic professional, and this dichotomy in his life, like
Clark Kent merely putting on a pair of glasses and acting differently to hide
his identity as Superman, is one of the main motifs of the Zodiac killers
secret messages.  Other than that incongruity, all the knowledge and expertise
the Zodiac killer exhibits may be found in Michael OHares background:

For example, Mr. OHare has engineering degrees from Harvard; throughout the
Zodiac lore there are numerous undertones of an engineering background,
including the Zodiac killer's knowledge of bombs and explosives, his
familiarity with academic terms such as the radian and the Wide Flange Beam,
and the very use of the Zodiac symbol, which besides resembling a crosshairs is
also a surveyor's symbol (often seen spray-painted on streets and sidewalks
where construction work is being done) for locating positions on a (USGS) map.

Perhaps the best argument in favor of someone like Michael OHare is the
behavior of those who encountered the Zodiac killer.  Paul Stine picked him up
in the theatre district despite already having a fare.  The police driver who
saw him on the street that night assumed he was a resident of (upscale)
Presidio Heights.  And Kathleen Johns described him as so clean-cut, she had
no fear of him until he (apparently) began threatening her.

Incidentally, Im aware that books have been put out accusing this (deceased)
relative or that (deceased) derelict of being the Zodiac killer, and these
books invariably feature photos which supposedly resemble the Zodiac killer
sketch, or handwriting exhibits in which one or two letters are shown to be
similar to the Zodiac killers.

Michael OHare looks EXACTLY like the Zodiac killer.  And documents in the
public domain reveal his handwriting to EXACTLY match that of the Zodiac
killer, even though the Zodiac killers letter-formations were extremely
idiosyncratic, pretty much throughout the alphabet.


Identification

Michael OHare was born in New York City on Friday, January 22, 1943.


He attended Bronx Science High School in New York City, graduating in the
spring of 1960.  He began attending Harvard as an undergrad in the fall of
1960, and was a member of the schools Rifle Team that year.  He is the
registered owner of at least one type of Zodiac killer firearm, a .22 rifle
(the same caliber as that used at Lake Herman Road).

He received bachelors degrees in Architectural Science (1964) and Structural
Engineering (1968), a masters degree in Architecture (1968), and a Ph. D. in
Engineering (1973), all from Harvard.  His doctoral dissertation was entitled
Classroom Utilization And Space Management.

OHare worked for the consulting firm of Arthur Little in their San Francisco
office in the late 60s and early 70s.  He has also worked for The Boston Museum
as a consultant.

He was an associate professor at MIT from 1971 to 1979, then worked for the
state of Massachusetts from 1979 to 1981.  He was a lecturer in Public Policy
at The John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard from 1981 to 1990. 
While he worked at Harvard, Michael OHare lived in a house at 12 Abbottsford
Rd., Brookline, MA 02146.

He currently lives at 2962 Russell St. Berkeley, CA 94705 (510-548-4168).

He has been a lecturer at Cal-Berkeley since 1991.

Goldman School of Public Policy
University of California
2607 Hearst Ave.
Berkeley, CA 94720

(voice) 510-642-7576
(fax) 510-643-9657
(email) ohare@berkeley.edu


Handwriting

Im not a handwriting expert, but I dont think you have to be one to see that
Michael OHares handwriting is all but identical to the Zodiac killers.  Here
are handwriting samples from both Michael OHare and the Zodiac.



The bulk of the OHare samples, as you can see from the dated entry, are taken
from his marriage application of April 16, 1969, and were obtained through the
efforts of a private detective.  The Zodiac killer samples were published in
newspapers and are in the public domain.  I have arranged the comparisons
alphabetically, though a few letters (e. g., J) were not available.  Also,
since Mr. OHare was writing on an official form, he used more block and
capital letters than usual.  The similarities are nonetheless self-evident:

The reader will note that some of the samples are not absolutely identical;
however, in some cases I felt it important to illustrate where Michael OHare
forms a letter identically to the Zodiac killer.  This is particularly
noticeable in the extreme rightward slant of the upper d-loop, and in the odd
mid-letter beginning of the small e.  Note, as another example, the curious
bishops staff appearance of the f, and the check-mark r.  Even though
the xs are not identical, note that they both produce a hedge-clipper x,
wider and more concave on the right side.  I believe the most striking quality
of the Zodiacs script is its eccentricity, particularly his B, D, G, M, R, S,
W, and Y.  One would think that the more eccentric a particular letter-
formation was, the more difficult it would be for him to disguise.  Keep in
mind that, since the O'Hare samples are from April 16, 1969, and the Zodiac
killer did not make his debut AS the Zodiac killer until July 1969, Michael
O'Hare cannot be said to have copied, consciously or otherwise, the Zodiac
killer's handwriting.  His own samples are older than the Zodiac killer's.

Michael OHare may have successfully varied his hand in some instances, but he
produces the most eccentric letters virtually identically to the way the Zodiac
killer produces them.


Police Sketch

Below are three photographic views of Michael Henry OHare, above a WANTED
poster put out by The San Francisco Police Department.  The poster itself has
been altered, but I would like the reader to first notice something about the
photographic progression on top.



As the pictures make clear, Michael OHare has been balding at a regular rate
since his college days.  With this in mind, compare the Zodiac sketch with the
altered Harvard graduation picture of 21-year-old Michael OHare.  Note that
the receding hairline in the sketch is about what one would have expected had
there been a 1969 picture between the 1964 and 1971 versions.

The unaltered poster had two sketches, the second of which has been called
inaccurate by Kathleen Johns, the woman who spent three hours in the Zodiac
killers company in March, 1970.  Ms. Johns insisted that the Zodiac killer was
younger than the second sketch suggested, that the man she rode with was in his
mid-20s rather than his mid-30s.  I am therefore using the sketch that
witnesses from two Zodiac sightings (Michael Mageau and Kathleen Johns) agree
on, rather than the one produced from a description by Donald Fouke, an SFPD
patrolman who thinks he saw the Zodiac killer on Jackson Street for fifteen
seconds after the Stine murder.

I realize a sketch is not definitive, but given all the other coincidences that
seem to link the Zodiac killer to Michael OHare, its interesting that this
sketch would so closely approximate the general shape of his face, the width of
his mouth, the shape and size of his nose, the line of his eyebrows, and even
his hairline as it would have looked in 1969.


Conspirators

This book concentrates almost entirely on Michael OHare, because he was the
trigger man, and because almost all of the cryptographic evidence points to
him.  Howerever, in addition to Michael OHare, The Zodiac Project was planned
and executed by at least three others:

Gareth Penn, (January 1, 1941-), a Cal-Berkeley graduate with degrees in German
and library science.  It was apparently his job to publicize the cryptographic
solution to the Zodiac murders.  Reading his material on the Zodiac murders, in
particular his self-published book, Times 17, provided me with the necessary
clues to the real solution, which is presented in this book.

 


Berta Margoulies, (September 7, 1907-March 20, 1996), Michael OHares mother,
a sculptor associated with The New York Group in the 1950s.  The Zodiac
Project, at least in geographic terms, is a conceptual form of Earth Art,
creating designs on the planet itself, geometric formations recognizable from
the perspective of space.



and Hugh Penn, (October 19, 1913-June 18, 1995), Gareths father, an agent for
the California Attorney Generals office and The California Highway Patrol,
headquartered in Sacramento.  Hugh Penn had several personal attributes that
would contribute to The Zodiac Project: he had a degree from San Jose State and
had worked in cryptography during World War II, he liked math, plus his
background in criminal investigation would be invaluable to a serial killer.

Sorry, no picture of Hugh Penn.  I'm working on it.

Okay, I found a picture of Hugh Penn on OPORD, posted there in 2007 by The
Foreigner:




O'Hare Review

At the end of each chapter of this book I will go back over the material Ive
covered and make a list of the general points.  Heres what Ive covered so
far:


    1. The Zodiac Project is a puzzle; you have to think of it that way to
solve it.

    2. Cal-Berkeley lecturer Michael Hare was the Zodiac killer.

    3. Cal-Berkeley graduate Gareth Penn was hispress agen.

    4. Michael Hare had the background and opportunity to be the Zodiac
killer.

    5. Michael Hars handwriting looks just like that of the Zodiac killer.

    6. Michael Hare looks just like the Zodiac killer sketch.

    7. Michaes mother and Garets father helped plan The Zodiac Project.



    This book is a mostly chronological analysis of The Zodiac Project.

    It will address the questions Who, What, Where, When, and How.

    But first, lets find out Why.


Pi

This is the hardest chapter in the whole book--probably because it's math and
geometry!  If you can make it through this, you should be able to coast through
the remaining 24 sections.

Why would intelligent and educated people like Michael OHare, Berta
Margoulies, Gareth Penn, and Hugh Penn plan and execute a serial murder case? 
The answer to that can be found at the end of the Academy Award-winning short
animation film from 1968, Why Man Creates.  Man creates to express his
identity.  He creates to say, I AM.

In the late 1950s, Berta Margoulies was a relatively obscure member of the New
York Group, a collection of Avant Garde artists that included modern art
superstars like Jackson Pollock, Robert Motherwell, and Mark Rothko.  Since the
time of the Renaissance, artists had been stretching the conception of what Art
waswhat Art could beand each period in Art History was a new chapter in that
movement until, by the early 1960s, the Avant Garde not only confronted the
public, it was blatantly antagonistic.  Pollock, Motherwell, and Rothko threw
paint at their canvases.  George Segal created plaster casts of ordinary people
and put them in mundane situations.  Andy Warhol painted cans of Campbells
Soup.

Christo Javacheff attempted to gift-wrap The Brooklyn Bridge.  Michael Heizer
excavated huge holes in the Nevada desert so his designs could be photographed
from space.  I believe Berta Margoulies conceived The Zodiac Project as a
multi-planed intersection of Art and Real Life.  As such, it was part
cryptographic puzzle, part Earth Art, part Happening, and even a design in time
itself---a clockwork, if you will, which is why timepieces play so prominent a
role in it.

It was composed, primarily, to resemble a serial murder case.  Of course, since
real people who were not privy to the artistic intent died, it WAS also a
serial murder case.  This still wasnt a new idea.  Agatha Christies The ABC
Murders contains a plot device that resembles the Zodiac Project, at least
alphabetically.

What made The Zodiac Project new was its unique approach to Identity. 
Remember, Identity itself is crucial to the artistic process, because artists
always sign their work, and because art is created to express ones identity. 
The Zodiac Project expressed that identity with every stroke.  The Zodiac
killers signature was everywhere.  Its central figure, Michael OHare, Bertas
son, happened to have an identity that was numerically interchangable, when
translated into his own private language, with the most common constant in
mathematics.  This chapter will demonstrate how the one translates into the
other.


Radian Clue

I want to cover the events of The Zodiac Project in chronological order, but
Ill begin with The Radian Clue because its the starting point for the
cryptographic speculation about the case.  Though several websites and
television shows have featured this clue, none to my knowledge has made even
the most basic follow-up assumptions about it . . . until now.  In his letter
of June 26, 1970, the Zodiac killer sent a Phillips 66 service station map with
a circle drawn over the Naval Radio Station on Mt. Diablo in California.



The Naval Radio Station is situated at the intersection of The Mount Diablo
Meridian and The Mount Diablo Base Line.  It houses United States Geological
Survey (USGS) Vertical Angle Bench Mark (VABM) 3849.  I dont think there can
be much doubt that it is this specific point the maps sender is highlighting,
especially since this point was used as the basis for all topological
measurements in the San Francisco Bay Area.

In a postscript to a letter the following month, the Zodiac said:

PS. The Mt. Diablo Code concerns
Radians &  # inches along the radians

A radian is a mathematical constant, an angle of 57.29?.  If you draw a radian
apexed on VABM 3849, so that the south leg of the angle goes through the Zodiac
murder site at Washington & Cherry Streets in San Francisco . . . the north leg
of that angle will go through the murder sites at Lake Herman Road and Blue
Rock Springs.



Frankly, I dont see any alternative to the obvious implication:  The Zodiac
killer committed those murders to create that angle on the map.


Pi Radian

a, The Zodiac killer shot to death two teenagers, David Faraday and Betty Lou
Jensen, at Lake Herman Road on December 20, 1968.

b, The Zodiac killer murdered Darlene Ferrin and wounded Michael Mageau in The
Blue Rock Springs Golf Course parking lot on July 4, 1969.

and c, He killed cab driver Paul Stine in Presidio Heights on October 11, 1969.

He did all that to create points on a map which would form a radian.   Clearly,
the Zodiac killer went to a lot of trouble to create that angle.  But why?  And
what is a radian, anyway?  Besides being 57.29??  A radian gets its value
from the math constant pi, whose symbol is p.

     pi = 3.1415926 . . .

A radian is, in fact, a circle divided by 2pi.

      360? ? 2(3.1415926 . . . ) = 57.29?

So the value for the radian is determined by pi.  And pi itself isnt some
esoteric concept.  Pi is the most common constant in mathematics, an irrational
number measuring the relationship between the circumference of a circle and its
diameter.  Versions of pi can be found dating back to the time of the
pyramids.  In fact, if you want to know why the killer chose the name ZODIAC,
the answer is as easy as pi.


Pi Zodiac

Most writers on the Zodiac murders have assumed the killers chosen name had
something to do with astrology.  Robert Graysmith, in the paperback edition of
Zodiac, spent several pages (244-252) discussing an astrological schedule for
the murders.  I dont find what he says compelling, or even intelligible.  Nor
does the killer ever make any obvious references to the astronomical Zodiac,
which is a section of the observable sky.

If the radian and pi are essentially numerical, is it possible the name ZODIAC
has something to do with mathematics?  At the end of the Zodiac killers
Exorcist Letter of January 29, 1974, the killer says, "Me - 37".



This appeared to be one of his end-of-letter scorecard statements, where he
would place a constantly ascending number next to his own name and a zero
beside SFPD, The San Francisco Police Department.  Did he really mean hed
killed 37 people?  Or did he mean,  Im the number 3, followed by 7 decimal
digits of pi.?  Lets test that hypothesis!  Lets take the whole number 3 and
the following 7 decimal digits of pi and see if it spells anything!

    3.1415926

First, well separate the numbers like this:

    3.    1    4    15    9    26

    . . . and then apply the corresponding letters of the alphabet:

    3.    1      4    15    9    26
    C    A      D    O     I     Z

When the letters of the alphabet are applied to the first 8 numbers of pi, you
get an anagram of the name ZODIAC!


Binary Pi

Assuming Im right, why would an academic professional like Michael OHare want
to evoke the mathematical constant pi by using the name ZODIAC?  If the Zodiac
killer was really creating a design on the map, he was dabbling in a form of
environmental art similar to that of Christo Javacheff and Michael Heizer,
using the planet itself as his canvas.  And we know that artists always sign
their work, so we would expect Michael OHare to use a name that somehow
identifies him.  If ZODIAC evokes pi, how does pi identify Michael OHare?

Well, heres the odd thing: The mathematical constant pi DOES identify Michael
OHare.  You have to massage it a little, but the result is pretty blatant.  We
again start with the section of pi that converts to ZODIAC:

     3.1415926

Then we convert just that section of the constant to binary math.

     3.1415926 = 11.00100100001111110110101


M.ERAHO

Were starting with the binary form of the part of pi that converts to an
anagram of ZODIAC.

    3.1415926 = 11.00100100001111110110101

This time, well separate the binary digits like this:

    11.    0    010    01    0000    111    1110110101

. . . and, once again, convert the result to letters, but this time using
binary Morse code, with 1 for dash and 0 for dot:

    11.    0    010    01    0000    111    1110110101
    M.     E     R      A        H        O      (949)

As you can see, the binary form of pi converts to Michael OHares first
initial and his last name . . . spelled backward.

Suppose you were doodling around in Morse code and binary math as a teenager,
and discovered that a form of your name was embedded in the most common
mathematical constant?  Suppose you then decided to create a serial murder/
mystery in which virtually everything you did revealed--in some cryptic way--
your identity?  Is it possible youd choose a name (ZODIAC) that referred back
to that math constant containing a form of your real name?

By the way, just in case you were wondering, 949 is the postal zip code of San
Rafael (94903), which was the postmark on the last known mailing during the
Zodiac period, The Count Marco Card of July 9, 1974.  It was also, during the
years of Gareth Penns press agent activities (1980-1989), the first three
numbers of his zip code.



Pi Examples

This isnt as far out as you might think.  Police refer to the process of
witnesses picking a suspect out of a lineup or a mug shot grouping as Positive
Identification.  So those letters, P-I, literally refer to identification of a
perpetrator by conventional investigative means.  But if the whole construct is
based on pi, I hear you saying, were going to find references to pi all over
The Zodiac Project, right?  Well, let me cite a few examples just off the top
of my head:

a, The angular value of the north leg of the Zodiac killers radian is 314?. 
314 is 100 times the truncated common form of pi, 3.14.



b, The Zodiac killer wrote to lawyer Melvin Belli because his specialty was
Personal Injury--P. I.. Belli also lived on Telegraph Hill, a clue to the
Zodiacs use of Morse code.

c, The Zodiac killer quoted from Gilbert and Sullivans The Mikado in two
letters (July 25, 1970 and January 29, 1974) because The Mikado premiered on
March 14, 1885.  March 14 is 3-14, a date often referred to by math nerds as
pi-day.

d, The Zodiac killer kidnapped, murdered, and buried Donna Lass, whose life
straddled the California/Nevada borders.  She lived in South Lake Tahoe,
California, but worked at The Sahara Hotel, a casino in Stateline, Nevada.  The
border is a manifestation of pi.



I will point out more examples when we get to them.


Geometric Metaphors

How is a serial killer similar to Superman or any other comic book superhero?

Because both have secret identities.  Superman was also Clark Kent.  In like
manner, The Green River Killer was also Gary Ridgway.  Seattle Ted was also Ted
Bundy.  The Son of Sam was also David Berkowitz.  In that sense, they were all
two-faced, like the Roman god Janus.  In Roman mythology, Janus was the god of
gates, doors, doorways, beginnings, and endings.  He was commonly depicted as
having two faces, pointed in opposite directions, 180? apart.



In the Zodiac killers Lake Tahoe Card of March 22, 1971, he punches a hole in
the upper right side of the card.  But he also uses the puncher along the top
edge of the card, creating a series of semi-circles.  Why?



Because hes replacing a straight line (180?) with a semi-circle (180?).  He
does that to emphasize 180? as a metaphor for a secret identity.  But people do
that generally as well.  If someone acts in a way thats the opposite of the
way he normally acts, we say hes done an about-face, or a 180.

Incidentally, 180? is also p (3.1415926 . . .) times the radian, 57.29?.  So
180? is a geometric metaphor for a secret identity.  This is why the Zodiac
killer reviews The Exorcist in the first place.  The girl in the film, played
by Linda Blair, has two interesting powers.  She can project vomit through the
air (which might come in handy), and she can rotate her head 180?.  That the
letter was sent in January (for Janus) is further evidence that this was the
Zodiac killers intent.


Radian Supplement

A bright reader might object at this point that there was no reason for the
Zodiac killer to create a radian on the map.  Although the radian value is
based on pi, both the name ZODIAC and the Morse/binary form of Michael OHares
name are related to pi itself.  So why use a radian?  Why not, say, blow up a
pie factory instead?

The Zodiac killer draws a radian on the map with the murders in Vallejo and San
Francisco because the radian also identifies Michael OHare.  If youre looking
directly at the Zodiac killer, and you need to see his other, secret, face, how
far do you have to travel?  Obviously, you have to go 180? to see the other
face.  So if the Zodiac killer gives you a clue that is in angular form, and
you subtract that angle from 180?, it should tell you who the Zodiac killer is.

The radian value is most often given as 57.29?.  However, that angle can also
be expressed in degrees and minutes.  Im going to truncate the value at 57?
17, and subtract it from 180?.

    180?          0
    -57?        17_
    122?        43

The supplement of the radian is 122? 43.  Michael OHare was born on January
22, 1943--in other words, 1-22-43.  Obviously, other people were born on that
date, but the radian clue narrows the list of suspects significantly.


Pi Review

Another review session!  Isnt this fun?


      1. Zodiac murders in the SF Bay Area create a radian on the map.

      2. The radian is based on pi.

      3.  By alphabet numbers, pi converts to an anagram of ZODIAC.

      4.  Pi can also be expressed in binary math as 11.0010010000111.

      5.  Binary/Morse pi converts to M.ERAHO, Michael Hars name.

      6.  There are numerous references to pi in the Zodiac crimes and letters.

      7.  180? is a metaphor for a secret identity.

      8.  The supplement of the radian converts to Michael Hars date of
birth.


So far, weve covered the Zodiac from A to B.  But there are still 24 letters
left in his alphabet.  If youve had enough theory, maybe its time to put it
into practice?  Were ready for a trip to Riverside, California, site of his
first murder.



Riverside

Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** Johns & Salem ******

Kathleen Johns

It stands to reason that if youre a killer who picks certain victims by name,
and by their appropriateness within your overall scheme, then most people will
have to be eliminated as candidates for murder.

If youve constructed a puzzle that juggles identity, topographic locations,
ways of measuring time and space, cultural allusions, and any number of other
themes, then, most of the time, youre going to pass on potential victims who
are unsuitable because their names are wrong, or their identities dont fit, or
the location doesnt mesh with the pattern, or the timings wrong.

Or all of the above.

And since its a puzzle, you would have to, at some point, suggest to the
public what those eligibility boundaries are.

If you wanted to demonstrate all your various parameters, you would probably
pick a victim who was inappropriate IN EVERY POSSIBLE WAY.

And then, to top everything off, you would behave in such a way as to almost
not be recognizable yourself, right?

Where youd murdered your other victims quickly . . . this time youd hesitate.

Where you'd barely been visible long enough to make an impression, or worn a
hood, this time you'd be sitting next to your victim for hours.

Where you'd been quiet or silent, this time you'd be motor-mouthed.

The downside of doing this would be that youd have a Zodiac event and no
murder!

The upside of doing it would be that you would have a living witness following
the event, and therefore you could show that witness aspects of your previous
crimes that might otherwise have escaped the attention of police and public.

For example, that youd abducted some previous victims before killing them.

That the Kathleen Johns kidnapping was longer in time than all the other Zodiac
killer events put together should suggest how tight his focus was elsewhere.



Kathleen Johns Facts

Late Sunday evening, March 22, 1970, a 7-months-pregnant woman named Kathleen
Johns was driving her car near Modesto, California when a passing motorist
signaled that there was something the matter with her car.  She pulled over,
and the man stopped and said her left rear wheel was loose.  He offered to
tighten her lugs.  After he did, she started driving again and the tire he had
worked on rolled off the car and spun into weeds at the side of the road. 
Saying the trouble was worse than he thought, the man offered to give her a
ride to the nearest service station.  Kathleen got into the car with her 10-
month-old infant child.  When they got to the next service station. the man
merely drove by.  She asked if he always went around helping people like this.

The man said,  When Im through with them they dont need any help.  Then the
man began saying,  You know Im going to kill you.  You know youre going to
die.  They rode around like that for about 3 hours, and Kathleen finally got
the nerve to jump out of the car when the man threatened to throw her baby out
the window.  Some time later, Kathleen was taken to a local sheriffs office
and happened to see the Zodiac killer WANTED poster on the wall.

 Thats HIM, she told the officer.   Thats the man who kidnapped me!

Police officers looking for Kathleens car found that her abductor had driven
back to it, put the wheel back on, driven the car to the intersection of
Highway 132 and Bird Road, and then set fire to it, gutting the car.

In the movie Zodiac, David Fincher has Paul Avery, played by Robert Downey,
Jr., doubt that the Zodiac killer committed the kidnapping, suggesting instead
that he merely took credit for it afterward.  This, if you think about it, is
absurd.

You have the amazing coincidence of Kathleen Johns seeing the WANTED poster and
immediately identifying the Zodiac killer as her abductor, and then the Zodiac
killer himself claiming her as a victim a few months later, for a crime the
bizarre nature of which has Zodiac written all over it.  I say theres no
doubt the Zodiac killer kidnapped Kathleen Johns.

So how did she survive in one piece, and with her baby unmolested, when
everyone else he encountered either ended up dead or scarred for life?


Public Demonstration

Ive said that the Zodiac victims were killed because certain aspects of their
identitiesprimarily their names, but also their ability to be designated as
virgins (at least nominally), their locations on the map, and even their
posittions in time itselfwere appropriate within the themes of The Zodiac
Project.  If certain victims were appropriate, it stands to reason that certain
other potential victims would have been inappropriate.  The Kathleen Johns
episode was a public demonstration of conditions under which he COULDNT kill.



March 22

Note the date that the kidnapping was initiated: Sunday, March 22nd.

March 22nd is 3-22.

One of the overall themes of The Zodiac Project is 2/23, or 2-23.

But 322 is the reverse, or opposite of 223.

Thus, the Zodiac killer abducts a potential victim on "322", and he CANT kill
her.

He drives Kathleen Johns around for three hours to demonstrate this.



Non-Virgin

If you were trying to show that you only kill virgins, or people who could
somehow be associated with a word that means virgin, how would you make a
public demonstration of that?

What sort of person would you choose NOT to kill?

Might you pick a woman who was 7 months pregnant?

And carrying with her a 10-month-old child?

In other words, someone who not only WASNT a virgin, but was DOUBLY Not A
Virgin (thus obeying the law of symmetry)?



Fire Bird

Finally, note what the Zodiac killer does to her car.  He drives all the way
back to it, puts the wheel back on, drives it to another location, and then
sets fire to it!

This takes place at the intersection of Highway 132 and Bird Road.

Lets look at the Morse/binary numbers for FIRE.

        F     I    R  E
    0010 00 010 0 = 132    (Morse/binary math)

The word FIRE converts to the number 132.  So he parks Kathleen Johnss car at
Highway 132 and Bird Road to create the phrase FIRE BIRD.  To underscore this,
he sets fire to the car.

Another blazing example of symmetry!



Phoenix

As I mention in Chapter H, he sets fire to a car to anticipate his own Death &
Rebirth as the Zodiac killer on August 11, 1989.  With his death will come
immortality, and the realization by the world that he selected his victims
ahead of time.

The Egyptian PhoenixThe Fire Birdrose from its own ashes.

It was a symbol based upon sunrise, which follows sunset and the night.

The torching of the Johns vehicle at Highway 132 and Bird Road was in
anticipation of the events of August 11, 1989.  It was a physical manifestation
of his own Death and Rebirth.



Kidnapping

The Johns abduction may also be a demonstration of something else.

Ive already said that I dont believe Cheri Bates ever went into The RCC
Library the night she was murdered.  I believe it was important for the Zodiac
killer to have complete control of the situation, which meant he probably
abducted her at gunpoint the moment she got out of her car.  This allowed him
to put her body where he needed it to be, and to go into the library & take out
the books on The Electoral College.

I also believe the two teenagers at Lake Herman Road may have been abducted
prior to their trip out to the turn-off.  They told friends they were going to
an event at the high school, but somehow they ended up out there in the pitch
darkness . . . on what was supposedly their first date, having not gone
anywhere else first except the drive-in diner.

It is easier to abduct people and place them on the landscape than a lot of
people might believe, particularly when you have the California motor vehicles
and driver's license data bases at your disposal, and particularly when no one
lives to tell about it.

I can think of three immediate objections to this line of thinking:

a, what if something went wrong during the kidnapping and one of the victims
got away?;

b, if he kidnapped Faraday and Jensen, and could place them EXACTLY, why
wouldn't their car be closer to the correct angle value of the north leg of the
radian (it's off by 1-2?); and

c, why not also kidnap Darlene Ferrin?

And my responses to these objections are:

a, If one of the victims gets away during the kidnapping, the crime resembles
the Johns kidnapping except with a murder at the end (assuming he kills the
remaining victim), and then maybe he doesn't do the Johns kidnapping.  It's
interesting that he does the Johns kidnapping after all the public murder
events, which to me suggests that nothing went wrong earlier.

b, Again, I don't think he ever felt he needed the radian to be EXACTLY
57.29?.  I think he assumed most (bright) people would get the point.  In any
case, as I say elsewhere, someone jumping up and down and screaming IT'S NOT A
RADIAN! because it's off by a degree or two completely misses the point, and I
don't mean the point of the radian mention.  The reason I talk about the
killer's INTENT in my intro section is that his INTENT is really what matters,
and that's true of any attempted profiling of a conventional serial killer
(though I'm no longer sure there's any such thing).

I'm not a huge fan of FBI profiling, but the insight that most serial killers
commit their first murder in their own neighborhoods, where they feel more
comfortable, should not be susceptible to some "skeptic" pointing out that a
particular first murder was across some invisible boundary line on a map and
thus, not in his neighborhood after all!  That's not argument; it's heckling,
when the heckler has nothing positive to contribute.

c, My own take on Darlene Ferrin is that her movements were much more
predictable than most people's, that she had a small handful of places where
she liked to hang out (as David Fincher's movie makes clear), and that, after
initially following her around, the Zodiac conspirators came to the conclusion
that she was a very good bet to end up in that clearing sometime on the night
of July 4th (though they were almost wrong about that).  Thus, there was no
need to further complicate matters by kidnapping her.

In any case, another reason to abduct Kathleen Johns and then make sure she
gets away would be to show how easily a personsomeone you chose in advance--
can be kidnapped.


Threat Wording

Note, finally, how the Zodiac killer words his threats to Kathleen.  He doesnt
say, Im going to kill you.  Youre going to die.  He says,  YOU KNOW Im
going to kill you.  YOU KNOW youre going to die.  He is deliberately setting
up a demonstration of something that isnt going to happen, because shes an
inappropriate victim.  So his wording reflects that, even though it appears
that he intends to do her harm, and even though his words APPEAR to threaten
her.



Jumping Out

Oh, I almost forgot!

So why did the Zodiac drive her around for three hours, if he didnt intend to
kill her?

Well, thats the funny part!

The Zodiac killer kept coming up to stop signs out on the rural roads and
slowing down and doing a Hollywood stop at each one, and kept repeating over
and over again,  You know Im going to kill you.  You know youre going to die
. . .

Its almost as if he were waiting for her to jump out!

But she never did!

So finally he drove the wrong way up a freeway exit and came to a stop and left
the car, at which point she grabbed her baby and ran off into the weeds.

My guess is Michael OHare heaved a big sigh of relief and said,  Finally!

In this particular episode, the Zodiac killer was stuck with an almost
insoluble problem.

He had to make it look like he really intended to kill her while somehow
letting her get away.

As Ive pointed out, he generally struck very quickly, so the very fact that he
could drive Kathleen around for three hours tells you he never intended for her
to be a victim.

Still, this is one of at least two instances during The Zodiac Projectthe
other being the Channel 7 show, and the unfortunate phone intrusion by the
mental patientwhere things dont go according to the Zodiac killers script.

If you like your humor black, those moments are the comedy relief.


Kathleen Johns Review


    1. The kidnapping is a demonstration of what the Zodiac killer CAT do.

    2. March 22nd is 3-22, the opposite of the Zodiac killes 2-23.

    3. Kathleen Johns was pregnant and had a 10-month old infant.

    4. She was demonstrably and doubly NOT a virgin.

    5. He torches the car at Highway 132 and Bird roaFIRE-BIRD.

    6. The Egyptian Fire-Bird is the Phoenix.

    7. The Zodiac killer will die and be reborn, like the Phoenix, in infamy.

    8. The Johns kidnapping may also demonstrate previous abductions.

    9. The abduction lasted three hours because she wouldt jump out!



Robert Salem

Any murder investigator, especially one looking into a serial murder case
thats decades old (and therefore, cold), MUST make assumptions.  Unless the
murder scene gives up irrefutable forensic evidence that one can immediately
take into court, an investigator is forced to choose among possible paths. 
These avenues open up like those before Armond Pelissetti on the night of Paul
Stines murder, when he started walking down Cherry Street, wary of the
darkness, and had to make a decision at each intersection as to which way to
go.

Ive always said that Robert Salem is a Zodiac victim.  Other writers on the
case, including Robert Graysmith, have considered other victims who MIGHT have
been killed by the Zodiac, mainly because hed hinted that there WERE such
secret victims that he didnt boast about.  When I wrote the first edition of
this book in 1990, Shelly Holmboe and Robert Salem seemed the most likely
secret victims, both in the details of their deaths and in their places in
the overall scheme, and nothing Ive learned in the last twenty years has
changed that opinion.    

I suspect that, though he was only the eighth individual victim chronologically
out of ten, Robert Salem was actually the last victim chosen.  In fact, I think
its entirely possible that Salem would be alive today if Michael Mageau hadnt
survived the attack at Blue Rock Springs.



Robert Salem Facts

Robert Salem, 40, was a well-known lamp designer who lived and worked in a
residence/studio in the 700 block of Stevenson Street, an alley behind The San
Franciscan Hotel at 1231 Mission Street.  On April 19, 1970, police responded
to a complaint from people living in the rooms on the back side of the hotel,
of a horrible smell coming from the alley.  When they investigated, they found
Salems nude body sprawled inside his apartment in the midst of a bloody scene
reminiscent of a slaughterhouse.

His killer or killers had turned the thermostat up to 90?.

Salem was stabbed multiple times and nearly decapitated.

His left ear had been cut off.

On the wall, printed in the victims blood, were the words

    SATAN SAVES.

An Egyptian ankh was drawn near the name

    ZODIAC.

The same symbol was drawn in blood on the victims stomach, though Robert
Graysmith calls it a dripping red symbol of a crucified man.

The killer apparently used the shower after the murder.

Police almost immediately decided the murder was not the work of the real
Zodiac killer, but a copycat effort.  How they came to this conclusion is
anyones guess.



Stanley Dean Baker

No one has ever been convicted of the Robert Salem murder.

A man named Stanley Dean Baker supposedly confessed to the murder to California
Highway Patrol detectives, adding that he carried away Salems ear because he
was a cannibal.

Any number of suspects in other cases have been convicted on nothing more
substantial than their own confessions, but Baker was never even charged in the
Salem case.

A reporter for USA Today wearily explained to me, some 20 years ago, that
police also had Bakers fingerprints in blood at the scene.

Frankly, I find this difficult to believe.  Fingerprints in blood tend to be
very convincing to most juries, and theres no statute of limitations on
murder.

Baker was charged and convicted of the 1970 murder of James Schlosser, and
ultimately paroled in 1986 (no, I dont understand why, either).  He was even
allowed to take up a new identity (and, one hopes, a new diet) in Wyoming.

Why wouldnt some ambitious young prosecutor go after Baker with the signed
confession and the bloody fingerprints?  They could even have done that while
he was still in jail in Montana.  It happens all the time.  The case would
figure to be fairly straightforward . . . unless, of course, police DONT have
any physical evidence against him.

And perhaps dont even have a confession.

When James Schlossers body was found, it was missing its head, heart, several
fingers . . . and all four of his limbs had been hacked off.  The heart had
supposedly been eaten raw and whole by Stanley Dean Baker.

In contrast, there was no evidence of cannibalism at the Robert Salem crime
scene, except perhaps for the missing ear, which may or may not have been eaten
since theres no sign of it.  If he did kill Robert Salem, Stanley Dean Baker
apparently didnt find his body very appetizing.  Why not?  If he was such a
compulsive cannibal, why wasnt he hungry that time?

Another odd thing: James Schlosser was shot twice in the head before he was
cannibalized.  The cutting up of his body was post-mortem.

Robert Salem wasnt shot, and his body wasnt cut up.



Gary Hinman Murder

The Robert Salem murder bears a much more striking resemblance to murders
committed by the Manson family in 1969.

In fact, in many respects, it is identical to the murder of Gary Alan Hinman,
which was discovered on July 31, 1969, coincidentally the same day the Zodiac
mailed out The Cryptogram letters.  Hinmans face had been deeply slashed on
the left side, his left ear cut off, and he had two stab wounds to the chest.

Hinman's house had been ransacked and the words "Political Piggie" were written
on the wall in his blood, next to a panther paw, also in blood.  The panther
paw was meant to leave the impresson that the Black Panthers killed him.

In both murders, the victis left ear was cut off.

In both murders, the killer or killers used the shower afterward.

In both murders, words were written on the wall in blood.

In both murders, a symbol was also drawn on the wall.

It seems clear that the Salem murderer(s), at the very least, borrowed ideas
from the Hinman murderers.  SFPD has called the Salem murder a copycat crime,
meaning the killer was trying to make the homicide look like the work of the
Zodiac killer.  I think it is much more accurate to say the killer was copying
the Hinman murder, while affixing the Zodiacs name to it.

So the question then becomes, was Stanley Dean Baker bright enough and
organized enough (for the FBI, this is always the key question when dealing
with serial killers) to have consciously copied the Hinman murder?

Maybe he was.  I doubt it.

Shortly after he killed James Schlosser, Stanley Dean Baker was apprehended on
suspicion of murder because hed been driving Schlossers car.

Hed been driving Schlossers car on the wrong side of the road.

While speeding.
.
Plus he was found to have a human index finger in his pocket.

None of which sounds either bright or particularly organized.



Bottomless Pit

One additional idea linking the Zodiac and Manson murders must have been
particularly striking to the Zodiac conspirators.

Charles Manson intended his murders, he said, to trigger a race war between
blacks and whites, as supposedly suggested by the song Helter Skelter from
The White Album by The Beatles.  Whites would initially fight blacks, but since
half the whites would oppose fighting the blacks, the whites would end up
annihilating each other and only the blacks would be left.  And then the Manson
family would be left to rule what was left of Mankind.

How would the Manson family survive the race war?

Manson speculated that they would ride out the storm in a hole in the ground in
Death Valley, in a place called The Bottomless Pit.  In fact, family members
were looking for just such a place at the time of their arrest.

Im sure the reader would never believe that both mass murderer Charles Manson
and academic professional Michael OHare could ever BOTH be quoted in
newspapers as saying the same thing, right?

But they were.

When Michael OHare was asked to respond to Gareth Penns accusations by The
Boston Herald in 1987, he was quoted in the article as refusing to do so
because there would never be an end to it.

Specifically, he said, Its a bottomless pit.

A bottomless pit is about as close to a description of Dantes vision of Hell
in The Inferno as you are likely to get.

And no, I dont think his wording was a coincidence.


Set Piece?

If youre the Zodiac killer, operating in the years 1969-1970, is it possible
youd find the notoriety of the Manson murders annoying?

Particularly the Hinman murder?  Particularly when discovery of the Hinman
murder on July 31, 1969--the same date you mail The Cryptogram--and the
subsequent coverage of the Manson murders steals some of your thunder?

Dont get me wrong.

I dont think Michael, Gareth, Berta, and Hugh ever got emotional over how
their masterpiece was being received publicly.

But once the basic groundwork of The Zodiac Project had been established in the
summer and fall of 1969, they had the time and space to get creative.

The Zodiac killer had never been averse to responding to other events (The
Exorcist movie, the Symbionese Liberation Army, a movie called Badlands about
serial killer Charles Starkweather) that might divert attention from his own
activities.  The Zodiac Project was, among other things, a PR machine.

Is it possible the Zodiac killer would deliberately stage a murder to resemble
that of an infamous cult, just to make the point that it was the Zodiac who was
really deserving of all the attention?

The Salem murder, in other words, would be a set piece.


Ankh

So lets return to our original assumption:

Robert Salem wasnt killed by Stanley Dean Baker.

And no one else has been charged with his murder.

So . . . could he be a Zodiac victim?

Lets look at the symbol he draws on the wall and on Salems stomach.

An Egyptian ankh.  Which is a symbol of life.  It was commonly found on tombs
in ancient Egypt.  It stood for eternal life.

For the afterlife.

And we know that the Zodiac killer is preoccupied with symbols such as the
Egyptian phoenix.  Again, the idea is that when he dies, he will live forever. 
So leaving the ankhs is consistent with what the Zodiac killer is doing.


Last Day

Weve looked at two concepts from the ancient Egyptian religion, the phoenix
and the ankh.

I want now to look at a ceremony from the Roman pagan religion.

Remember what Ive been saying about the Zodiac killer:  He sacrifices victims
to place them at specific points on the landscape, to mark off his designs.

The Roman religion does the same thing, except it uses the sacrifice ceremony
to mark off property.  The ancient Romans were practical about everything,
including their religious beliefs.  If theyd had cars, theyd have had a god
of parking meters.  The god of border stones, marking off property, was called
Terminus.  Ill quote from Wikipedia:

In Roman religion, Terminus was the god who protected boundary markers; his
name was the Latin word for such a marker. Sacrifices were performed to
sanctify each boundary stone, and landowners celebrated a festival called the
Terminalia in Terminus' honor each year on February 23.

February 23rd was the last day of the Roman calendar.
To write it with numbers, we use 2-23.

The last day.

On the last day, the marker stones laid will be consecrated by a victim's
blood.

The last day of our own calendar is December 31st.  We write it 12-31.

The Napa Car Wash, from which the Zodiac called the police in Napa, was at 1231
Main Street.

The San Franciscan Hotel, which Salems studio was behind, was at 1231 Mission
Street.


Death Date

When did Robert Salem die?

His body was found, because it was decomposing and people in the back rooms of
the hotel were complaining about the smell, on Sunday, April 19, 1970.

So we can be sure he was killed quite some time before that.
But when, exactly?

The medical examiners guess was April 12th, but the intense heat inside the
apartment would have blurred any estimate.

Heres the interesting thing:

Three of the Zodiac victims have the word EASTER in their names.

Remember, I said Easter is the finished product of Dantes Inferno.

Easter Sunday in 1970 was March 29.

Obviously, that date would be a plausible day for Salem to have died.  It is
also the exact midpoint between the deaths of Shelly Holmboe and Donna Lass.

Shelly Holmboe                                 Robert
Salem                                  Donna Lass
October 19, 1969    (23 weeks)         March 29, 1970        (23 weeks) 
  September 6, 1970


Remember, I dont need the Robert Salem murder to make my case.  Because the
distance between the Holmboe murder and the Donna Lass murder is still exactly
46 weeks, which is 2 x 23.  But if Salem is murdered on Easter Sunday, now
youve got three secret Zodiac victims whose murder dates are connected by
two 23-week intervals which flank Easter Sunday.

In other words, symmetry.



Pre-Obituary Article

An article on Robert Salem (The Lamplighter of Stevenson Street), written
while he was still alive, was published on March 30, 1969 in The San Francisco
Examiners Sunday edition.



Again, if Salem was murdered on March 29th, that would be the 365th day since
the Salem article.  It was, in effect, the last day of a year beginning with
that article.  So the murder of Robert Salem on that date would be another way
of invoking the Terminus and 2-23.

Its interesting that the Salem murder would thus turn the normal Zodiac killer
sequence on its head: instead of him killing a victim and then writing to the
newspapers about it, in this case the murder would FOLLOW an article about the
victim in the newspaper.

Very often during The Zodiac Project there are little hints and clues such as
The Examiner article which, in effect, say, If you just look at the
information thats available on this person, you may be able to figure all this
out.  That never happened because everyone assumed he was killing people
randomly, which in at least a couple of cases (Cheri Bates and Darlene Ferrin,
because conventional evidence shows he was stalking them personally) we know
wasnt true.


Lamplighter

The SF Examiner article on Robert Salem that was published on March 30, 1969 in
the Sunday edition was entitled, The Lamplighter Of Stevenson Street.

The Zodiac killer twice used a song from Gilbert and Sullivans The Mikado
(in the July 25th, 1970 Mikado Letter, and in the January 29th, 1974 Exorcist
Letter).

The Examiner calls Salem The Lamplighter of Stevenson Street.  

The name of the Gilbert & Sullivan troupe in San Francisco?

The Lamp Lighters.


Satan Saves

What about the message on the wall?
I mean, besides the name ZODIAC?    

      SATAN
      SAVES

Those two words are alliterative, just like the words on the wall at the Hinman
murder.

    POLITICAL
    PIGGIE

Whats even more interesting is that you have three words connected to this
particular murder that consist of five letters (remembering that pentagrams are
associated with Satan), and all three words start with S-A.

    SATAN
    SAVES
    SALEM

If we put those first two letters in columns like an acrostic and add up their
alphabet numbers, we get an interesting result.

S    19        A    1        TAN
S    19        A    1        VES
S +19         A  +1        LEM
      57               3

      57.3

57.3 is about as close an approximation as you can get to the radian angle
value, 57.29?.


South Leg Sub-Radian

If this seems a stretch (and Im sure it does), note also that the Salem murder
is a sub-radian off the south leg of the Mt. Diablo radian.

Here is an illustration page from my book (Illustration #60, obviously), which
features the south leg of The Mt. Diablo Radian superimposed over a USGS
quadrangle map page which includes Presidio Heights and Chinatown, "San
Francisco North".  The south leg comes in from the right (east), and ends at
the intersection of Washington & Cherry Streets:




Here is the same map page, now showing two additional points, 739 Clay Street,
the site of BM 54, the only USGS benchmark on the south leg of The Mt. Diablo
Radian, and the Robert Salem murder site (his apartment/studio on Stevenson
Street).

If one draws a line from BM 54 in Dragon Plaza to the Salem murder scene on
Stevenson Street, that line creates another radian, a sub-radian:



It also makes the Mt. Diablo Radian symmetrical, in terms of the number of
murders on each:

North Leg: David Faraday + Betty Lou Jensen + Darlene Ferrin = 3

South Leg: Paul Stine + Donna Lass + Robert Salem = 3


Robert Salem Review

I will cite more reasons to believe the Salem murder was authored by the Zodiac
killer later in the book.  In the meantime, lets review:


      1. Stanley Dean Baker was convicted of the James Schlosser murder.

      2. Baker was never even charged in the Salem murder.

      3. The Salem and Schlosser murders dot resemble each other.

      4. The Salem murder is a copy of the Gary Hinman (Manson) murder.

      5. The Salem murder is a set piece, signed by the ZODIAC.

      6. The ankh drawn in blood is a symbol of death-and-rebirth.

      7. The Zodiac killer victim-placement resembles the Roman Terminus
ceremony.

      8. The Terminus ceremony sacrificed animals to set border stones.

      9. The Terminus ceremony took place on the last day of the calendar year.

    10. The last day of the Roman year was February 23rd, 2-23.

    11. The last day of our modern year is December 31st, 12-31.

    12. The San Franciscan Hotel is at 1231 Mission Street.

    13. The phone call to the police in Napa was from 1231 Main Street.

    14. Robert Salem may have been murdered on Easter Sunday, March 29, 1970.

    15. Easter 1970 is the midpoint between the Holmboe and Lass murders.

    16. Easter 1970 bissects the 46 weeks between Holmboe and Las2 x 23.

    17. March 29, 1970 was the last day of a year after the Examiner article.

    18. The articls keyworLampLightereferences Gilbert and Sullivan.

    19. SATAN, SAVES, and SALEM add up acrostically to 57.3, a radian.

    20. The murder site is a radian off the south leg of the Mt. Diablo radian.

    21. The Salem murder makes the Mt. Diablo Radian symmetrical.



1970 Letters

Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
                         ****** Lake Berryessa ******

An actor in the David Fincher movie Zodiac (Jake Gyllenhaal, to be precise)
opined, in the DVD commentary, that the Zodiac caseor at least the feature
film about itwas all about dead ends.  I think it may be more accurate to say
that the case itself is a network of cul-de-sacs; that each episode appears to
be a dead end, but if one steps back and looks at the landscape more generally,
a pattern begins to emerge.  Of all the turn-offs on the road to the solution,
none is more out-of-the-way than the Lake Berryessa murder.  Whereas all the
other murders occur at night in urban or suburban surroundings, Lake Berryessa
takes place in a pastoral setting, by a man-made lake, on a sunny day, out in
the middle of nowhere.

The Lake Berryessa episode also raises questions that even I am not prepared to
answer:

    1, If the Zodiac killer predetermined his victims by name ahead of time, as
Ive been saying all along, did he somehow follow Bryan Hartnell all the way
out to the lake?  If so, his ability to keep himself next to invisible was
remarkable.  Thats a long ride out into the sticks, and not even Harnell and
Shepard were aware ahead of time that they were going out to the lake.

    2, Did the Zodiac killer intentionally wound Mr. Hartnell superficially, to
make sure he survived?  All seven of his wounds were in the back.  If one of
the two didnt survive, his donning the costume was for nothing, since there
would be no witness to  it afterward, and his donning of the costume was
significant in the overall scheme.

    3. Im also saying here that the Zodiac killer never intended to shoot his
victims, that his plan required him to stab them.  If thats true, what if
Bryan Hartnell had decided not to cooperate?  We know he strongly considered
lunging for the Zodiac killers gun, and we also know that the gun was loaded
(the movie has him showing Hartnell the loaded clip, though the movie DOESNT
have the Zodiac say, Im going to have to stab you people, once they were
tied up, as the Graysmith book does).  Sowould the Zodiac killer have shot the
couple anyway?

We know, of course, that the Zodiac killers design wasnt foolproof.  He could
easily have been apprehended following his next murder, of Paul Stine in
Presidio Heights, and Lake Berryessa required the grudging cooperation of his
victims.  Like the plane passengers on 9/11, if theyd known what was going to
happen, they wouldnt have remained passive.  This is yet another strong
suggestion that he was good at orchestrating events on the fly.


Lake Berryessa Facts

On Saturday night, September 27, 1969, the Zodiac killer, after donning a
bizarre hooded costume which featured a bib front with the infamous Zodiac
crosshairs symbol, accosted a couple at a resort in Napa, north of San
Francisco, pointed a .45 at them and had them tie each other up, then stabbed
the boy (Bryan Hartnell) 7 times in the back, and the girl (Cecelia Ann
Shepard) 5 times in the front and 5 times in the back for a total of 10 times.

He stabbed the couple a total of 17 times.  Afterward he walked up to the
highway and grafittied in black magic marker on the passenger door of
Hartnells Karmann Ghia:




17 Times

Notice how often the Zodiac killer used the number 17:

    a. He stabbed Bryan Hartnell and Cecelia Ann Shepard 17 times total.

    b. Both The Cryptogram and The 340 Character Cipher have 17 columns.

    c. Even The 32 Character Cipher of June 26, 1970 isnt two lines of 16. 
Its a top line of 17, and a bottom line of 15 characters.  That cipher was
sent more than 40 years ago.  Isnt it amazing that no ones ever commented on
that oddity (probably because they never noticed it)?

    d. 17 letters were sent during the initial Bay Area Period (69-71):

      1. The Cryptogram letter to Vallejo Times-Herald (July 31, 1969)
      2. The Cryptogram letter to San Francisco Examiner (July 31, 1969)
      3. The Cryptogram letter to San Francisco Chronicle (July 31, 1969)
      4. TheThis is the Zodiac speakin Letter (August 7, 1969)
      5. The School Bus Threat (October 13, 1969)
      6. The Pen Card (November 8, 1969)
      7. The Bus Bomb Diagram (November 9, 1969)
      8. TheDear Melvi Letter (December 20, 1969)
      9. The 13-Character Cipher (April 20, 1970)
    10. The Little Dragon Card (April 28, 1970)
    11. The Mt. Diablo Letter (June 26, 1970)
    12. The Kidnapping Confirmation (July 24, 1970)
    13. The Mikado Letter (July 25, 1970)
    14. The Hole Card (October 5, 1970)
    15. The Halloween Card (October 27, 1970)
    16. The LA Times Letter (March 15, 1971)
    17. The Lake Tahoe Card (March 22, 1971)

Any dispute about individual mailings I will address when I get to them.  

The Zodiac killer is preoccupied with the number 17 because it is simply
another reference to the section of pi that converts to the name ZODIAC.

    3.1415926

Its the number 3 followed by 7 decimal digits, so its 37.

    3.    1415926

But its also 1 digit before the decimal point, followed by 7 after, so its
also 17.



Day Distance

The gaps between Zodiac killer events are often significant; one of the more
interesting is the relationship in time between the first and second murder
events.  The distance in days from the Riverside murder (October 30, 1966) to
those at Lake Herman Road (December 20, 1968) is

    782

    782 = 2 x 23 x 17

The distance in days is 2 x 23, times 17.  Were already used to seeing 2 x 23,
but notice once again the appearance of 17 as an additional factor.

I waited until now to bring up the gap in time between two earlier murders to
underscore the Zodiac killers use of  days to measure time.   If you measure
time conventionally, using years or months, youre going to be limited in what
you can express by doing things at certain specific times.  By using day-
intervals as an additional form of measurement, the Zodiac killer can make very
specific numerical points by doing things on certain days.  And he makes
perhaps the most important of those points at Lake Berryessa, on Saturday,
September 27, 1969.



Times 17

As Gareth Penn has pointed out, the phrase "Times 17" identifies Michael OHare
very specifically.  He stabbed the couple at Lake Berryessa a total of 17
times.  He went to the trouble of constructing and putting on the ceremonial
costume to celebrate this ritualistic reinforcement of his identity.

    T   I    M  E   S       17
    1  00  11  0  000  10001

    10011000010001 = 9,745 (binary math)

Michael OHare was born on January 22, 1943.  On September 27, 1969, he was
exactly 9,745 days old.  Instead of signing his name at the bottom of Bryan
Hartnells car door, he identified himself BY KNIFE.


Deciphering VALLEJO 1

Ive pointed out how the Zodiac killers first words are often the most
significant.  Look at the very first word he writes on the Karmann Ghia:

      VALLEJO

Because the Zodiac killer so often and so successfully uses misdirection to
mask his clues, the reader looks at the first word on that car door and assumes
hes identifying where all those dated murder-events took place.  Hes not. 
After all, if he were doing that, he would have written Napa above the date
for September, since Lake Berryessa is in Napa, California, and not in
Vallejo.  But he didnt.  He doesnt write Vallejo as a reference to things
past.  He writes Vallejo for the same reason he writes The 18 Letters at the
end of The Cryptogramas a warning of things to come.


Deciphering VALLEJO 2

The Zodiac killer considers himself an artist.  And artists make choices. 
Often, their reasons only become apparent after the fact.  For example, I
havent mentioned it until now, but Vallejo, California has an interesting
acrostic if youre familiar with the Zodiac killers theme of 2-23:

   Vallejo, California
   V           C
   22          3        (alphabet numbers)

   223


Deciphering VALLEJO 3

Speaking of acrostics, Lake Berryessa is yet another form of Michael OHares
birthday.

    Lake Berryessa

    L      B    (acrostic)
    12     2    (alphabet numbers)

    122

1-22 is January 22nd.  The Zodiac killer uses yet another form of 1-22 over and
over again in his letters, and this form is a key to deciphering VALLEJO.


Deciphering VALLEJO 4

Look once again at that first word:

    VALLEJO

Any number of readers, including Robert Graysmith, have noticed an absolute
preponderance of double-Ls in The Cryptogram.  Later on, the Zodiac killer will
sing a song from Gilbert & Sullivans The Mikado about a Little List of
possible victims.  So why all the double-Ls?

    L    L
    12  12    (alphabet numbers)

Twelve written flush implies muliplication.

    12 x 12 = 122 = 122 = 1-22 = January 22nd

Thats not algebraicly correct, of course.  But it does conform to the Zodiac
killers cryptographic fudging.  So Im suggesting, at least this one time,
that we read double-Ls as

    122     instead of     12    12

Fair enough?


Deciphering VALLEJO 5

Let's convert VALLEJO to alphabet numbers, as we've done with everything else.

     V    A      L     L    E    J    O
     22   1     12   12   5    10   15

Remember, were converting LLs to 122 instead of 12/12.

   V    A      LL     E     J    O
    22   1     122    5    10   15    (alphabet numbers)

This formation produces two palindromes which are side by side.

    221        122          51015

A palindrome is a statement which reads the same backward as forward.  As
Gareth Penn suggested, symmetry is the basic design element to the Zodiac
Project, so finding palindromes should indicate were on the right track.


Deciphering VALLEJO 6

   V    A       LL      E    J     O
    22   1     122      5    10   15    (alphabet numbers)

    221        122             51015

What do these numbers mean?
Well, we know what 122 means--January 22, Michael OHares birthday.

   221        Birth         51015

If 122 stands for his birth, what would 221 stand for?  Most likely his death,
right?  Since 221 is the reverse of the birth number, 122?

   221        Birth         51015

    Death    Birth         51015

 So how can Birth follow Death?  Birth could follow Death in a sense, if one
became famous--or infamous--after ones death, as the Zodiac killer intended to
do.

The reader will object that the Zodiac killer was already famous.  He was, but
in a relatively limited sphere.  The Zodiac killer was well-known on the West
Coast, particularly to baby boomers and their parents, but as the David Fincher
movie demonstrated, not a lot of people in the rest of the country were
familiar with him.

But having set the stage with his Zodiac kille serial murder episodes, Michael
OHare intended to go out with a very big bang.  Having achieved that criminal
catastrophe as a final master stroke, he would be genuinely infamous.  And, in
a sense, he would be born again as a legendary evil-doer.

So, it wouldnt really be Death and then Birth.  It would be Death, followed by
Rebirth, right?

   Death     Rebirth      5 10 15

Note that if you divide the following numbers by five, the statement suggests
Death and Rebirth as zero, as a starting point:

    Death & Rebirth,    1  2   3

Make sense?


Deciphering VALLEJO 7

   VA       LL                E    J     O
    221     122               5    10   15    (alphabet numbers)

    221     122               51015

But dividing 51015 by 3 instead of by 5 produces an even more startling result:

    Death & Rebirth     51015

                                    51,015 ? 3 =     17,005

    Death & Rebirth,                             17,005

In other words, Death and Rebirth is followed by 17,005.

As I've already noted, another reason the Lake Berryessa murder is important is
that it introduces the idea of measuring Michael OHares life in days.

The 17,005th day of Michael OHares life would have been Saturday, August 12,
1989.  So if his Death and Rebirth happens the day prior, it would be on
Friday, August 11,  1989.

Additional reason to believe thats the target date is that August 11th is Day
223 of 1989.  He chose Vallejo as a murder venue at least partly because the
name of the town tells you when The Zodiac Project will reach The End.

Note also that the principle of symmetry is adhered to.  Vallejo is, at least
nominally, the beginning of the Zodiac Project.  Thats why he sends the first
This is the Zodiac speaking letter to The Vallejo Times-Herald and NOT to The
San Francisco Chronicle.

But VALLEJO also tells you when it will all come to an end.

The 18 Letters tell you WHERE the final event will take place, and VALLEJO
tells you WHEN.  Like The 18 Letters, VALLEJO makes two statements.

His Death and Rebirth will be the beginning of his legend.

And Friday, August 11, 1989 will be The End.


Renaissance

The reader will see the Zodiac killer refer to this idea of Death & Rebirth
over and over again.  In fact, at one point he actually sets a car on fire to
make the point!  Well get to that momentarily.

In the meantime, note that Dantes Inferno is yet again a perfect vehicle for a
story about rebirth.  Why?  Because the Renaissance, which means Rebirth, began
in the Italian city-states of the 14th century.  In fact, in many ways, The
Divine Comedy, and in particular The Inferno, serves as a backdrop for all of
Western art over the following several centuries.  That the Zodiac killer has
turned the story and its symbolism upside down should not surprise us.


Lake Berryessa Review

Amazing how weve only looked here at three words the Zodiac killer wrote on a
car door (BY KNIFE and VALLEJO)!  Its yet another example of how economical
his real messages are.


    1. The number 17 is another synonym for pi.

    2. The day interval from Riverside to Vallejo is 2 x 23 x 17.

    3. The Zodiac killer celebrated in costume at Lake B because he was TIMES
17.

    4. He writes VALLEJO on the car door as a clue to the final event.

    5. Vallejo, California is 223 by acrostic.

    6. By acrostic, Lake Berryessa is 122, a form of January 22nd.

    7. Double-Ls in the Zodiac letters are another form of 122.

    8. VALLEJO translates to two palindromes, 221/122 and 51015.

    9. VALLEJO meansDeath and Rebirth as a beginning.

  10. VALLEJO also meansFriday, August 11, 1989 will be The End.

  11.Dants Inferno ushered in the Renaissance, which meansrebirt.



Presidio Heights

Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
                        ****** Presidio Heights ******

From David Fincher's Zodiac, the DVD commentary over The School Bus Threat
Letter:

Brad Fischer (producer): I mean, this is, this is a guy with some serious
confidence who just barely escaped on a fluke because the description was
incorrect!

James Vanderbilt (producer and screenwriter): Serious confidence but also, I
mean, you know, really just a lucky bastard.  I mean, he should have been, this
is not, you know, and this was something we kind of came back to over and over
again, as as you know Brad, Dave, and I, I can't remember who coined it, but
had this, uh, this phrase, "Wily Coyote Super-Genius", and it's sort of this
idea, and we, we make fun of Robert, uh, Graysmith in the film for it because
there is this tendency and Graysmith has it and a lot of, you know, other
people who are interested in the case have it to kind of go, "This guy was
Professor Moriarity, he was the greatest villain--"

Brad Fischer [laughing]: He was the most brilliant serial killer ever!

James Vanderbilt: --and he wasn't.  He was a guy who got really lucky, and and
and so you know, constantly wanted to constantly kind of deflate it.  You know
what I mean?

I'm sorry, guys, I guess I DON'T know what you mean.  Maybe if the three of you
had used a better metaphor than Wily Coyote, who was a notorious failure, and
instead used, I don't know, maybe "Road Runner Super-Genius", since the Road
Runner always got away . . . kind of, you know, like the Zodiac killer?  That
you're the professional writer, and I'm the amateur, should tell you all you
need to know about Hollywood.  Needless to say, I don't agree with the Fischer-
Vanderbilt version of the Zodiac killer, which I will allude to here as "The
Zodiac As Mr. Magoo".

Mr. Magoo was a nearsighted, nearly blind cartoon character who otherwise lived
a charmed life.  If Magoo was about to walk off a bridge into space, a crane
would suddenly appear, hoisting an I-beam.  Magoo would somehow step smoothly
onto the I-beam and cross it without missing a step, and at the other end of
the I-beam a truck would pass by, and Magoo would walk across the top of the
truck, which was passing under another bridge, and Magoo would continue off the
top of the truck onto the walkway of the bridge, and so forth, all the while
huffing and puffing about what this crazy world was coming to these days.  The
humor in the Mr. Magoo cartoon was in how he somehow managed to stroll through
the landscape without incident, while completely oblivious to his unfailing
good fortune and even cranky about his treatment.

I'm not sure which real-life serial killer most resembles Mr. Magoo--maybe Ed
Gein, the basis in fact for the fictional Norman Bates and Dr. Hannibal
Lecter.  Unlike his Hollywood counterparts, who were neurotics (at least, most
of the time), Ed Gein was psychotic, and able to avoid capture only as long as
he remained inside his own little world.  Once he ventured outside it, the
police were quickly able to figure out, from his bizarre affect, how he kept
himself busy.

I don't think Mr. Magoo would survive long as a serial killer.  Those who think
he resembles the Zodiac killer say he's remained unknown because he was
institutionalized, either in prison or in a mental hospital.  I don't think
either of those scenarios is likely.  People who lose their freedom also lose
control of their privacy, and a psychotic who was the Zodiac killer would have
been found out, either because his belongings included items the Zodiac killer
was likely to have (such as crime scene souvenirs and Zodiac weapons) or
because his bizarre behavior would have created suspicion.

I think the Zodiac killer escaped capture precisely because he WASN'T just a
lucky bastard.  I believe he planned everything he did well in advance and did
local research about what was likely to happen, and when you do that, you
greatly increase your odds of avoiding capture.


Presidio Heights Facts

Paul Stine was already on his way to a fare on 9th Avenue when the Zodiac
killer flagged him down in the theatre district on Saturday night, October 11,
1969.  

Stine wrote Washington & Maple in Presidio Heights in his trip book, but when
they arrived at that corner, the Zodiac killer apparently instructed him to go
another block, to Washington & Cherry.  After Stine pulled over and put the car
in PARK, the Zodiac killer grabbed him from behind and fired a bullet through
his skull.

The Zodiac killer then exited the cab and got into the front seat through the
passenger side door.  He got back out a minute or so later and wiped down the
outside of the cab, in the process leaving two bloody fingerprints of his own
on the drivers side door separator.  He then began walking down Cherry Street.

Two SFPD radio car cops apparently saw the Zodiac killer as he reached Jackson
& Maple, but the APB had mistakenly specified a Black Male Adult, so they let
him continue on his way.


Virgin Victims 1

Theres a term teenage boys use to describe a virginal girl.  They say shes
cherry.  Theres also a song by Jan and Dean, Surf City, which describes a
30 Ford wagon:

    You know is not very cherry
    Is an oldie-but-a-goodie

Pagan ritual specifies that the sacrificed human victim be a virgin.  And the
Zodiac killer goes to the trouble, at Lake Berryessa, of dressing up in costume
not unlike a medieval executioner.  Throughout the Zodiac Project, the victims
are dealt with in a ritualistic manner, either in the way they are selected, or
killed, or both.  For example, all three Sunday victims (Cheri Bates, Shelly
Holmboe, and Robert Salem) are stabbed to death and nearly decapitated, which
is the traditional method of killing a pagan sacrifice victim.  

The Zodiac killer had Paul Stine drive an extra block from Washington and Maple
so that the cabbie could then become a suitable virginal victim at Washington
and CHERRY.  He CANT kill Stine at Washington & Maple because its not an
appropriate place, and he asks for Washington & Maple when he gets in the cab
so he can demonstrate this to the world.  The world wasnt paying attention,
but thats not his fault!

When he kidnaps Kathleen Johns in March 1970, the entire episode is a
demonstration of what he CANT do, which is why Johns survives.  More on that
when the time comes.


Virgin Victims 2

Lets take a second look at some of these virgin victims:

     1, We dont know if Miss Bates was a virgin, but she definitely was CHERI.

     2, The two teenagers at Lake Herman Road were likely virgins.

     3, Darlene Ferrin, who was already married to her second husband and out
in a car with a man who wasnt her husband, can safely be ruled out as a
virgin.  However, she had recently returned from a vacation trip to the Virgin
Islands, and she lived on Virginia Avenue.

     4, Cecelia Ann Shepard was a devout churchgoing young woman, and in spite
of the cozy scene in David Finchers movie Zodiac, had no intimate relationship
with Bryan Hartnell, the man she was with at the time of her murder.  She was
just 20 years old and very likely a virgin.

     5, The one-year-old toddler, Shelly Holmboe, was certainly a virgin.

     6, Robert Salems last name evokes ritual and witchcraft and the burning
at the stake of young girls who were, in most cases, literally innocent.

     7, Donna Lass, kidnapped from the Sahara Hotel, had a last name which
means a young, virginal girl in the Scottish or Cornish highlands, the typical
pagan sacrifice victim.


Front Seat 1

When the Zodiac killer got into the front seat of Paul Stines cab, he did at
least four things, which I will enumerate a section at a time.  Am I engaging
in pure speculation again, as I did in assuming that Cheri Bates was actually
kidnapped and never went into the RCC library?  Perhaps.  But lets walk
through the Zodiac killers post-mortem (as far as the victim was concerned)
actions at the cab, and see if I can make sense of what he did:

I have no way of knowing for sure what the Zodiac killer did in the front seat
of Paul Stines cab.  Witnesses saw him get into the passenger side of the
front seat, but what he did once he was inside, only one person knows for
sure.  But we know he pulled the tail of Stines shirt out of his pants and
hacked off a piece with a knife, because he subsequently sent rectangles of the
garment to authenticate his letters.

If you recall my saying that the Zodiac killer was spelling his name, heres a
major clue in that direction.  Why does he have to risk being caught at the cab
by taking time to hack off Stines shirt?  Theres a much easier and less
dangerous way of linking all his crimes, and yet, for some reason, he chooses
not to take that path of least resistance.  Why?


Front Seat 2

We know, of course, that the Zodiac killer also took Paul Stines wallet.  We
can probably assume he did it to be able to prove his guilt later on.  But the
Zodiac killers taking possession of the wallet disproves an assumption made by
Robert Graysmith.  Graysmith has said that the Zodiac killer used a different
gun each time because he ditched the gun shortly after each murder, so he
wouldnt be found with the murder weapon on him.  To which I say, What good
would it do you to ditch the gun, if youve kept a souvenir from the crime
scenein particular, the victims blood-soaked wallet?

Another obvious problem with the gun-ditching scenario is that it allows the
gun to possibly be traced back to its owner, if found.


Front Seat 3

We also know he pulled Paul Stines dead body over onto the passenger seat
before he exited the cab.  He must have, because even if Stine had slumped onto
the passenger seat after he was shot, the Zodiac killer would have had to push
him back over toward the drivers side in order to get into the front seat
himself.  If you look at photos of the crime scene, you will notice that
Stines torso has been pulled to the passenger side, in such a way that his arm
hangs out the door.  It's possible that the morgue stewards moved the body, but
patrolman Armand Pelissetti, first on the scene, describes Stine's torso as
being on the passenger side with his head touching the floor.  If you read the
section on the Vallejo passengers, you know why this was done.


Front Seat 4

I believe the Zodiac killer did one other thing while he was in the front seat
of Paul Stines cab, and though I cant offer proof of what Im suggesting, it
fits both the physical evidence and the Zodiac killers methodology.  He
removed Paul Stines own metal-banded wrist watch and replaced it with a black-
banded Timex, exactly like the one left at the Riverside murder scene, which
had been stopped at 12:22.  The Presidio Heights Timex, if it is ever recovered
among Paul Stines effects, will be found to have been stopped at 1:46.

Toschi had noticed two long dark marks on Stine's left hand.  Perhaps he had
thrown up his hand to protect himself from the gun blast. Robert Graysmith,
Zodiac, page 91 of the hardcover edition

The act of pulling the metal band off Stines wrist caused long dark scrapes on
the skin of his forearm, which were noticed by SFPD Inspector Dave Toschi.  The
blood of a dead person is no longer pumping through his body, thus any rough
treatment of the skin post-mortem will leave a mark.  This Timex--the one
planted by the Zodiac killer--is clearly visible in photos of the scene showing
Stines hand hanging out the cab.

Incidentally, David Faraday was also wearing a black-banded Timex at the time
of his death, so its possible that one was also planted by the Zodiac killer. 
Im choosing Paul Stine as the more likely plant-recipient because there were
dark scratches on his forearm/wrist area, but either or both could have
received new timepieces from the Zodiac killer.

By the way, its probably of some significance that we know Timexes take a
licking but keep on ticking, but in the case of the Zodiac killers planting
of stopped Timexes, he was strapping them onto victims who themselves were no
longer ticking.  I suspect he left a watch by Cheri Batess body, instead of
putting it on her wrist, because it was more likely to be taken note of if
police assumed it belonged to her assailant.  Whereas leaving a watch beside
David Faraday or Paul Stine would have begged the question of how the killer
happened to lose it.

It also would have been a less subtle clue.


Misidentification

SFPD misidentified the slug from the gun, most likely because it sustained
significant damage colliding with Paul Stines skull.  It was NOT from a .9mm.

[Rust] found a copper-jacketed slug, badly misshapen but recognizable as a 9-
mm. or .38 caliber.  Robert Graysmith, Zodiac, page 32 of the hardcover edition

Clearly, a 9mm or .38 slug could easily be mistaken for each other, even by
forensic personnel.  Someone recently pointed out to me that the original San
Francisco Chronicle story misidentified the 9-mm slug as a .38.  I believe the
misidentification was in the other direction, but in any case, the SFC reporter
wouldn't have made up the gun typing while he was writing the story; if he
reported a gun type, it's because that's what his source, SFPD, gave him.

In the Zodiac killers Mt. Diablo Letter of June 26, 1970, he states

    I shot a man sitting in
    a parked car with a .38.

The Zodiac killer was NOT, as SFPD has stated, taking credit for a murder he
did not commit (Officer Richard Radetich had been shot in a parked police car
just prior to the Mt. Diablo Letter mailing).  Instead, the Zodiac killer was
correcting the gun typing for the Presidio Heights murder, from 9mm. to .38. 
The man sitting in a parked car was actually Paul Stine, who had put his cab
in PARK just prior to being shot in the back of the head.  The Zodiac killer
was saying, I didnt use a 9mm.  I used a .38.

Reporter Paul Avery would supposedly tell Gareth Penn, at a conference in the
early 1980s, that the original gun identification had been a mistake. 
Presumably, SFPD never corrected the gun ID publicly for the same reason they
changed the 20 symbols in The Cryptogram, so they would have yet another key
they could use to catch the real killer.

This corrected information tells us at least two things:

    1, the gun numbers themselves mean something; and

    2, the other gun numbers22 (Lake Herman), 9mm (Blue Rock Springs), and .45
(Lake Berryessa) are all correct, because the Zodiac didnt publicly correct
them as he did with the Presidio Heights gun number.

So we now have a corrected chronological sequence of gun numbers22, 9, 45, and
38that would seem to be important to the killer.  What could they possibly
spell out?


Gun Numbers 1

Does it strike anyone out there that the Zodiac killer was going to absolutely
absurd lengths to connect his murders?  If you just killed someone on a street
corner in an upscale part of townwhere the cops are going to respond quickly
to any emergency call--would you take the time to get into the bloody front
seat of his car and hack off a piece of his shirt while the cops were redlining
to the murder scene, just so you could later take credit for it?

Whats wrong with this picture?

In 1973-1974, a group of Black Muslims began randomly shooting white victims in
San Francisco in what came to be called the Zebra murders.  Even though
different gunmen were involved in each crime, the murders were connected
because they were all committed using the same gun.  Police can do a ballistics
match in a matter of hours.   So why wouldnt the Zodiac killer just use the
same gun each time, and save himself all that extra work?  Whats the down side
of using the same gun each time?

Well, as I said earlier, you cant be ditching the gun for the reason Robert
Graysmith suggested, to avoid being caught with it on you, when youve just
taken the victims bloody wallet with you (not to mention wearing his blood on
your clothes).

Remember, the Zodiac killer sent messages every time he did something.  And you
cant send a message, even where numbers take the place of letters in a
substitution sequence, by merely repeating the same number.


Gun Numbers 2

Okay, if the reader hasnt figured it out already, times up.  I gave you
enough hints!
    
The Crime                               The Weapon
Lake Herman Road                .22 rifle
Blue Rock Springs                   9mm. hand gun
Lake Berryessa                      .45 hand gun
Presidio Heights                    .38 hand gun
    
Yes, Im aware that the victims at Lake Berryessa werent shot.  They werent
shot because he had to stab them 17 times to identify himself by knife.  But
the Zodiac killer still showed them a gun which Bryan Hartnell identified in
public accounts of the encounter as a .45.  So the Zodiac was satisfied that
that number45had gotten out.

Now we have a numerical sequence from someone who loves to turn letters into
numbers and numbers into letters.  Plus, we have to assume the gun sequence is
of prime importance, right?

So what could it possibly spell?

    22    9    45    38

Lets begin where we always do, by using basic alphabet substitution.  Since we
have numbers above 26, well use a repeating sequence, where A=27, B=28, and so
forth.  This gives us

    22   9   45  38
    V     I    S    L

Could Elvis be the Zodiac killer?  I thought the Zodiac killer was High Class,
but maybe that was just a lie?  Anyway, theres no Mister E, right?  Lets try
something else!


Gun Numbers 3

    22   9   45  38
    V     I    S    L

Okay, Elvis probably wasnt the Zodiac killer.  You dont always get things on
your first crack.

    22    9    45    38

Alphabet substitution is the most basic form of number-to-letter code.  The
second most basic is reverse alphabet numbers.  In other words, Z=1, Y=2, X=3,
and so forth.  Converting the four gun numbers using this repeating sequence
gives us

    22    9    45    38
    E     R     H     O

I dont think its difficult to see ERHO as a form of OHARE backwards.  And
spelling his name backwards would make sense, since the binary form of pi
spells M.ERAHO.  But then why remove the central A?

Its done to repeat the overall pattern, again using alphabet numbers.

    E    R                 H    O
    5  +18 = 23        8 + 15 = 23

The Zodiac killers gun numbers, in sequence, spell his name backwards.  They
actually spell a form of his last name which converts to 23/23.  And again, I
dont think thats a coincidence.


Modus Operandi

Right around this point in David Finchers movie, Zodiac, about 40 minutes into
the movie, both newspaper men (Paul Avery and Robert Graysmith) and both police
investigators (Dave Toschi and Bill Armstrong) begin discussing patterns in the
Zodiac murders.  There are no fingerprints at Lake Herman Road, Blue Rock
Springs, or Lake Berryessa or in any of the lettersthen the Zodiac killer
leaves prints in blood on the cab at Presidio Heights, taking his gloves off to
do so.  At Lake Herman Road, he kills both victims, but then only kills the
female at Blue Rock Springs and Lake Berryessa while wounding the males.  He
attacks couples in lovers lanesbut Paul Stine breaks that pattern.

Think about it, reader.

If you kept doing the same thing over and over, police and reporters would not
take time to analyze your pattern, because you wouldnt be varying it.  You
call attention to your modus operandi by varying it.  The Zodiac killer does
things differently each time to call attention to his m. o..  And we know that
everything he calls attention to identifies him somehow.  Well, what could be
self-identifying about an m. o.?

And what are Michael OHares initials, anyway?


Car Costume

A cab is a car that's wearing a yellow costume.

Sort of like what the Zodiac killer was doing at Lake Berryessa.

I discussed the gun sequence.  Anytime you have a sequence of transmissions,
you can send a message; if you have more than one sequence, you can send more
than one message.


Car Sequence

If the Presidio Heights homicide is the end of the public murders, the Zodiac
killer does the final one in a car that's wearing a costume.  San Francisco
cabs were, I believe, Chevrolet Chevelles.  But I suspect the cab is intended
to stand for Michael O'Hare's costumed self.  Thus, what precedes the cab is
his real self.

If he can send a message with guns, he can send one with cars.  After all, he
was picking victims from the state vehicular data base.  Let's look at which
vehicles his victims were driving:

Cheri Bates        David Faraday       Darlene Ferrin         Bryan
Hartnell       Paul Stine
Volkswagen        Rambler                 Chevrolet                
Volkswagen             TaxiCab
22                        18                            
3                               22                              --

Note, again, that the two DFs represent mirror-image crimes, so we'll add those
together.

22                       18 + 3 = 21
                                               22

Note that this is a palindrome that spells out Michael O'Hare's birthdate,
forward and backward.

22 + 21 + 22

22 / 43

        43 / 22

Both represent January 22, 1943, the 22nd day of '43 (22-43).

The gun numbers sequence spells out his name.  The car sequence spells out his
DOB.


Luck

Just how lucky was the Zodiac killer?  Even if you limit yourself to the four
public SF Bay Area murder-events, he seemed to be extremely lucky.  As
investigators pointed out, there was about a six minute window for him to have
committed the murders on Lake Herman Road and not be seen by anyone driving
by.  He manages to avoid police at Blue Rock Springs, even though a patrol car
had been out in that parking lot a half-hour before.  And, in San Francisco, he
stays at the car for a minute or two after shooting the driver, and then
strolls through the neighborhood with police cars redlining past him . . . and
the only thing that seems to save him from capture is the misidentification of
the suspect as a Black Male Adult.

If you're like me, and you don't buy into The Zodiac As Mr. Magoo scenario,
it's all very spooky.

Of course . . . if a killer is bright enough to appear to move the victims
around, and move their cars around, and time everything with great serendipity
. . . would it be a stretch to assume that he's also moving the cops around,
too?

Don't get me wrong.  As we learned from watching The Alfred Hitchcock Hour back
in the 1950s, the best-laid plans of killers often fall prey to happenstance,
the sudden unexpected appearance of the mailman (I thought I'd sneak that image
in here somewhere), and just bad luck, and no amount of planning is going to do
away with the element of surprise.  The Zodiac conspirators must have resigned
themselves to the possibility that the entire project was subject to the law of
chance.  But . . .

There's a lot you can do to avoid bad luck, if you spend enough time thinking
things through in advance.  As James Siegel says near the end of his excellent
novel, Derailed, Fate laughs at people with a Plan, but smiles on those who
bring a Back-Up Plan.

The six minutes at Lake Herman Road, and the avoidance of patrol cars at Blue
Rock Springs?  With the logistical expertise of Hugh Penn, and a police radio,
you can strike when the cops are busy elsewhere (as they were in both cases). 
And you can minimize your own vulnerability.

As a Chicago homicide detective recently pointed out on ZKF (before being
banned from the site), the Zodiac killer APPEARED to time his attacks so they'd
take place during police shift changes, or on weekends when more experienced
personnel were off.

At Lake Herman Road, the Zodiac killer is there long enough to kill the two
teenagers, and then he's gone.  At Blue Rock Springs, though he comes back to
the car (for reasons I've already given--to spread W-Ws all over) a second
time, he is otherwise economical in his movements and probably spends no longer
than a minute or so in that clearing.  He has more to do at Lake Berryessa, and
the area is remote, but he still moves quickly and gets himself out of there
after just a few minutes.

In Presidio Heights, he appears to have taken some crazy chances.  But did he?

Let's consider what I think are the two most likely scenarios:


Presidio Scenario 1

The Zodiac killer was last seen walking down Cherry Street that Saturday
night.  We know he turned the corner and disappeared into the darkness.  I
submit that anything said about his activity beyond that point is pure
speculation.  Since I believe the Zodiac killer was Michael O'Hare, and since I
say he always intended to kill Paul Stine at the corner of Washington and
Cherry Streets, there would have been absolutely no reason for him to stroll
through the neighborhood.

Since we now know that he didn't change his mind about where the murder would
be, he wouldn't have any need to double back toward Maple Street.  He'd have
parked his car on Cherry Street and made his way to Geary Street by bus (Robert
Graysmith speculates as much on page 82 of the hardcover Zodiac, except for not
thinking the car was parked specifically on Cherry Street).  His car, I
believe, would have been parked just far enough down the street to avoid having
it seen by someone witnessing the crime.  He'd have walked down the street,
gotten into the car, and been miles away by the time Armond Pelissetti pulled
up at the corner.

How do I explain Donald Fouke's testimony, given that scenario?  There's no
need to.  As Pelissetti said, Fouke probably did NOT see the Zodiac killer,
even if he believes he did.  Fouke says he passed a man on Jackson Street
walking in an easterly direction on the north side of the street.  Fouke's
squad car was going about 40mph, and slowed to 25mph long enough to ascertain
that the man was white, not black, and then sped on.  The entire incident
lasted 15 seconds, tops.  Fouke's primary concern, while looking at the man,
was his color, and yet he gives a full description of the man's outfit, which
did not include any blood (which the Zodiac killer would have been covered
with).  Fouke is the only Zodiac eyewitness who describes him as a man 35-45;
everyone else (Michael Mageau, the teenagers on Washington, and Kathleen Johns)
describe a man in his 20s.  Fouke says he submitted his version of events a
month later.  But it would have been known to everyone in the SFPD that the
Zodiac killer had committed the crime the following Tuesday.  Why would he wait
an entire month?

How do I explain the Zodiac killer's saying he was stopped and talked to by the
police?  Fouke eventually told Pelissetti that he thought he stopped the Zodiac
killer, in which case that story would have spread through the law enforcement
community like wildfire.  The Zodiac killer would have been aware of it because
Hugh Penn would have heard about it, and he could have made up the part about
being stopped by police because that's what the rumor buzzing about the Bay
Area police agencies was.

Wasn't the Zodiac killer lucky that the dispatcher said Black Male Adult? 
Maybe, but it might be interesting to see the statistics on cab hold-ups in San
Francisco back then, just to see what percentage were committed by black men. 
I tend to believe that the very phrase CAB HOLD-UP would have suggested a black
suspect to SFPD personnel.  In any case, if Michael O'Hare had parked on Cherry
Street and driven away immediately after leaving the cab, it never mattered
what the APB description of him was, right or wrong.

Scenario #1 makes a lot of sense to me; it's logical, and it explains
everything.

But I have to reject it because . . . because I don't think it's what the
Zodiac killer would do.

I think what really happened is Scenario #2.


Presidio Scenario 2

Michael O'Hare leaves the cab between 9:50pm and 9:55pm and begins walking down
Cherry Street.  Behind him, a few minutes later, Armond Pelissetti arrives at
Washington & Cherry (supposedly at 9:55pm, but the call from the teenagers on
Washington is logged at 9:58pm, so 10pm or later is probably more like it). 
Meanwhile, Donald Fouke has heard the initial APB about a cab robbery/shooting
by a Black Male Adult and begins driving at 35-40mph down Jackson Street toward
Cherry.  As he drives through the intersection at Maple he sees Michael O'Hare
on the far side of the intersection, on the north side of the street, walking
in the direction of Maple.  Fouke slows the cab down long enough to ascertain
that Michael O'Hare is white, not black, and hits the accelerator again,
leaving O'Hare to dwindle in his rear-view mirror, though he does notice that
O'Hare avoids looking at the police car and begins walking up a flight of steps
just as the police speed away.

When Fouke turns the corner at Jackson & Cherry, he runs into Armond Pelissetti
pursuing the suspect on foot.  Pelissetti corrects the APB description, saying
the suspect is a White Male Adult.  Fouke says that he then swore and told
Pelissetti that he had seen the killer on Jackson Street; Pelissetti says Fouke
said nothing about having seen a suspect that evening, but subsequently did
admit to seeing a man who may have been the Zodiac killer.

Almost a month later, the Zodiac killer writes a letter in which he describes
the police stopping him on the street about three minutes after the shooting
and asking him if he had seen anything suspicious.  The Zodiac killer replies
that he saw a man waving a gun and the police speed off in the direction he
indicates.  A day or so following receipt of this letter, Fouke finally submits
an account of his sighting a suspect on Jackson Street (but not speaking to
him).

What happened?  Everyone who has reported on the police reaction that night has
taken pains to remind his readers that the police didn't know Paul Stine's
assailant was the Zodiac killer until the following week, when the letter
containing a piece of his shirt was received.  What no one has emphasized is
that the police also didn't know they were pursuing a serial killer (or even a
killer, for that matter, when the first APB went out).  The police believed
they were pursuing someone who had just held up a cab and had shot the driver
in the course of a robbery.

Serial killers tend to be white males (almost exclusively).

The profile of your typical cab hold-up man is a lot more integrated, if you
know what I mean.

When Fouke explains why he didn't stop the man on Jackson Street, he invariably
mentions that Presidio Heights was an affluent neighborhood.  He doesn't just
say, "We were looking for a black male and the pedestrian was white."  He says,
"Seeing that it was a white male in an affluent neighborhood walking along the
street, we didn't think it was a suspect."

And, according to Pelissetti's account, the change in color of the APB doesn't
change Fouke's demeanor at all.  It isn't that Fouke eliminated the pedestrian
because he was white, and the description was black.  It's that Fouke was
looking for a taxi cab stick-up man, and the guy Fouke saw obviously belonged
in the neighborhood.  And no one who lived in the neighborhood held up cabs for
a living.

What saved the Zodiac killer wasn't a mistaken description; it was a mistaken
preconception.

Did Michael O'Hare take a chance that night, strolling through the
neighborhood?  Maybe he did, but he had to make a couple points before finally
walking off the stage (publicly).


Park

He shoots a man who has just put his cab in PARK.

He talks about the cops searching the PARK properly.

He says, If only the cops had PARKed their cars and just waited for him to come
out of cover.

And several times, he talks about making his way that night into the PARK.

Do any of these references mean anything, or are they all a lot of PARK spelled
backwards?

     P    A      R     K
    16 + 1  + 18 + 11 = 46

Yes, you guessed it, PARK is yet another reference to 2 x 23!  But use of the
term points to the basic dichotomy between who the police thought he was that
night, and who he really was.  A cab stick-up man, after a botched robbery,
would be stranded, and would have to hide in the PARK.  But someone who
belonged in the neighborhood would simply walk to his PARKed car.



Affluent Neighborhood


In Presidio Heights, with the murder of Paul Stine, the Zodiac killer moves
into a better neighborhood.  That he takes a cab ride from the theatre
district, and finally disappears, following his last public murder, into
quiet streets where doctors, lawyers, and other professionals live, should
serve as a hint, both of his theatrical intent, and of the neighborhoods of his
own private life.


Maybe he was lucky that he made it back there safely?  Or maybe, like the Dr.
Jeckyll character in Robert Louis Stevenson's The Strange Case of Dr. Jeckyll
And Mr. Hyde, he needed only to reach those quiet streets, even in the midst of
hot pursuit by police after his alter-ego, to escape blind justice, and to
blend in with the upscale scenery?

The reader may laugh at such a melodramatic idea, but I think Michael O'Hare,
as he disappears into the night, is laughing a lot harder.


Presidio Heights Review

The Presidio Heights killing of cab driver Paul Stine was the Zodiac killers
last public murderhis remaining four murders would all be secret.

As such, his final open killing is packed with information:


    1. The Zodiac killer imitated pagan ritual by sacrificingvirgi victims.

    2. All victims were real or nominal virginlike Paul Stine on Cherry St..

    3. He hacked Stins shirt off so he didt need a gun linking his crimes.

    4. He pulled Stins body over onto the passenger side of the front seat.

    5. The Zodiac killer strapped a Timex stopped at 1:46 onto Paul Stins
wrist.

    6. The Zodiac killer used a .38, NOT a 9mm., to kill Paul Stine.

    7. The gun numbers, read in sequence, spell his name backwards.

    8. 22-9-45-38 converts to a form of his namER/Hwhich is also 23/23.

    9. Michael Hare varied his m. o. because his initials are M. O..

  10. The car sequence, going forward or in reverse, spells out his DOB.

  11. He doesn't NEED a disguise in Presidio Heights; he looks like he belongs
there.


Robert Graysmith describes the crime scene at Washington & Cherry as having
been lit up like broad daylight.

We now move out of the starlight, and into the dark side of the Zodiac killer.



Shelly Holmboe




Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
                            ****** Riverside ******

Heres where things get a bit complicated.  As Michael OHare steps onstage in
Riverside, he carries with him most of the symbolic props he will use
throughout his performance as The Zodiac killer.  This chapter is largely an
introduction to those basic Zodiac killer themes.


Cheri Bates was murdered by the Zodiac killer on Sunday, October 30, 1966.

I will detail the significant facts of that event in the following section.

This chapter will then go on to explain:

      1. Why she was murdered WHEN she was murdered.

      2. What famous literary work he evoked in a poem, and why.

      3. How Michael OHares life is DEFINED by the Cheri Bates murder.

      4. Why the format of his letterssuch as typing in ALL-CAPSis important.

      5. Why a serial killers FIRST murder changes his identity.

      6. How an artist can sign his name on the planetin invisible ink.

      7. Where the Zodiac killer gave us the key to his coding system.

      8. How the Zodiac killer left a map at the murder site.

      9.  What (probably) REALLY happened the night of the murder.

    10. Why police made assumptions they shouldnt have made.


The murder in Riverside appears, on the surface, to have been simple.  It
wasnt.

In many ways, it was the most complex murder ever committed.


Riverside Facts

1. Cheri Bates was an 18-year-old student at Riverside City College in
California on the night of Sunday, October 30, 1966.

2. At 6:10pm that evening, a friend of Cheris saw her lime green VW Beetle go
by on the street and waved to her, but Cheri didnt wave back.  At 6:15pm, a
man from March Air Force Base saw Cheris car drive up an alley near the RCC
library; it was closely followed by another car.

3. Cheri apparently parked her car across the street from the RCC library at 6:
20pm, but she was never seen alive again after the military man saw her.  We do
know she was wearing a light-colored blouse and maroon pants at the time of her
death.

4. The RCC library closed at 9pm that night.  At approximately 10:30pm, several
witnesses in the area reported hearing a scream.

5. At 6:30am the following morning, Monday, October 31, 1966, Cheris body was
discovered by an RCC janitor who spotted her  lying face down in an alleyway
off Terracina Drive.  In 1966 the area was a gravel driveway between derelict
houses; it is presently a parking lot.

6. Cheris torso had been stabbed twice in the front and once in the back by
the shoulder blade, and her throat was slashed three times, nearly decapitating
her.  The crime scene yielded the following information:

    a., Cheris car engine had been disabled, presumably while she was inside
the RCC library;

    b., three books on the electoral college were left on the passenger seat of
Cheris car, next to a greasy palm print;

    c., a Timex watch, stopped at 12:22, was found ten feet from Cheris body.

7. Copies of The Confession Letter, postmarked November 29, 1966 were received
by The Riverside Enterprise newspaper and the chief of police.

THE CONFESSION

                   BY _________________

SHE WAS YOUNG AND BEAUTIFUL.  BUT NOW SHE IS BATTERED AND DEAD.  SHE IS NOT
THE FIRST AND SHE WILL NOT BE THE LAST.  I LAY AWAKE NIGHTS THINKING ABOUT MY
NEXT VICTIM.  MAYBE SHE WILL BE THE BEAUTIFUL BLOND THAT BABYSITS NEAR THE
LITTLE STORE AND WALKS DOWN THE DARK ALLEY EACH EVENING ABOUT SEVEN.  OR MAYBE
SHE WILL BE THE SHAPELY BLUE EYED BROWNETT THAT SAID NO WHEN I ASKED HER FOR
A DATE IN HIGH SCHOOL.  BUT MAYBE IT WILL NOT BE EITHER.  BUT I SHALL CUT
OFF HER FEMALE PARTS AND DEPOSIT THEM FOR THE WHOLE CITY TO SEE.  SO DOT MAKE
IT TO EASY FOR ME.  KEEP YOUR SISTERS, DAUGHTERS, AND WIVES OFF THE STREETS
AND ALLEYS.  MISS BATES WAS STUPID.  SHE WENT TO THE SLAUGHTER LIKE A LAMB. 
SHE
DID NOT PUT UP A STRUGGLE.  BUT I DID.  IT WAS A BALL.  I FIRST PULLED THE
MIDDLE
WIRE FROM THE DISTRIBUTOR.  THEN I WAITED FOR HER IN THE LIBRARY AND FOLLOWED
HER OUT AFTER ABOUT TWO MINUTS.  THE BATTERY MUST HAVE BEEN ABOUT DEAD BY THEN.
I THEN OFFERED TO HELP.  SHE WAS THEN VERY WILLING TO TALK TO ME.  I TOLD HER
THAT MY CAR WAS DOWN THE STREET AND THAT I WOULD GIVE HER A LIFT HOME.  WHEN WE
WERE AWAY FROM THE LIBRARY WALKING, I SAID IT WAS ABOUT TIME.  SHE ASKED ME
ABOUT TIME FOR WHA.  I SAID IT WAS ABOUT TIME FOR HER TO DIE.  I GRABBED HER
AROUND THE NECK WITH MY HAND OVER HER MOUTH AND MY OTHER HAND WITH A SMALL
KNIFE AT HER THROAT.  SHE WENT VERY WILLINGLY.  HER BREAST FELT VERY WARM AND
FIRM UNDER MY HANDS.  BUT ONLY ONE THING WAS ON MY MIND.  MAKING HER PAY FOR
THE
BRUSH OFFS THAT SHE HAD GIVEN ME DURING THE YEARS PRIOR.  SHE DIED HARD.  SHE
SQUIRMED AND SHOOK AS I CHOAKED HER, AND HER LIPS TWICHED.  SHE LET OUT A
SCREAM
ONCE AND I KICKED HER HEAD TO SHUT HER UP.  I PLUNGED THE KNIFE INTO HER AND IT
BROKE.  I THEN FINISHED THE JOB BY CUTTING HER THROAT.  I AM NOT SICK.  I AM
INSANE.  BUT THAT WILL NOT STOP THE GAME.  THIS LETTER SHOULD BE PUBLISHED FOR
ALL TO READ IT.  IT JUST MIGHT SAVE THAT GIRL IN THE ALLEY.  BUT THAS UP TO
YOU.  IT WILL BE ON YOUR CONSCIENCE.  NOT MINE.  YES I DID MAKE THAT CALL TO
YOU
ALSO.  IT WAS JUST A WARNING.  BEWARE . . . I AM STALKING YOUR GIRLS NOW.

      CC. CHIEF OF POLICE
              ENTERPRISE

8. Some months after the murder, a students desk at the RCC library was found
to have been carved with The Desk Poem:

    Sick of living/unwilling to die
        cut
        clean
        if red/
        clean.
        blood spurting,
                dripping,
                    spilling;
        all over her new
        dress.
        oh well,
        it was red
        anyway.
        life draining into an
        uncertain death.
        she wot
        die.
        this time
        somone ll find her.
        just wait till
        next time.
                rh

9. In letters postmarked April 30, 1967, two Loose Leaf Binder Notes were
mailed to the recipients of The Confession Letter; a third copy was mailed to
Cheri Batess father, Joseph Bates, at 4195 Via San Jose in Riverside.

    BATES HAD
    TO DIE
    THERE WILL
    BE MORE

    Z

The third copy, perhaps significantly, said She rather than Bates, and was
not in ALL-CAPS format like the other two copies and The Confession Letter.

Incidentally, since photographs of the Zodiac killer's letters would simply be
a substantiation of my own diplomatic renditions here on the page, and the
typed versions are easier to read, Ive chosen to forgo including photocopies
of the letters in most instances in this book.  The reader may easily find such
copies elsewhere, including Robert Graysmiths book Zodiac and Tom Voigts
excellent website Zodiackiller.com.


Devil's Night

Lets begin our analysis with the date.  Cheri Bates was murdered on October
30.  In addition, a scream was heard that night at 10:30.  Its almost as if
her killer waited until then so he could call attention to the date: 10-30. 
And what date would that be?

No, its not Halloween, which is traditionally celebrated on October 31.

Whats the night BEFORE Halloween called?  Thats rightits Devils Night!

On September 27, 1969, after the attack on the couple at Lake Berryessa, the
Zodiac killer walked up the road to Bryan Hartnells Karmann Ghia and wrote a
message on the car door--the sort of thing revelers were likely to do on
Devils Night, leaving graffiti on houses and cars.




So we can be sure, if the dates are supposed to mean anything, that The Devil
figures prominently on his list of symbols.  The Devil, incidentally, is
referenced at numerous points throughout The Zodiac Project, for example, the
radian apexed on Mt. Diablo that I talked about in the last chapter.

Incidentally, Devil's Night is also called Hell Night, so any reference to Hell
itself, even without The Devil being present, would also be allusive.


Desk Poem Paraphrase

Lets jump ahead to The Desk Poem to expand on my first point.

I believe The Desk Poem is a paraphrase of a famous literary work.
    
But first, what do I mean by paraphrase?  Heres an example:

"87 years before today, my ancestors arrived in America to establish an
egalitarian society."

Sound familiar?  No?  Thats funny--all I did was change the words!

Otherwise, my version means the same thing as the more familiar:

"Four score and seven years ago our fathers brought forth on this continent a
new nation, conceived in Liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men
are created equal."  

In other words, you can disguise a familiar quotation just by changing the
wording, and this has been done before on quiz shows like Jeopardy.


Medieval Manuscript

So what literary work is The Desk Poem paraphrasing?

First, lets look for a clue in the form.

    Sick of living/unwilling to die

You have a single upper case letter, the S of Sick, followed by exclusively
lower case letters.
Is there a type of manuscript form that this follows?

What about a medieval manuscript, as transcribed by monks in monasteries during
the Dark Ages, with its large first letter followed by lower case?  If were
dealing with a medieval poem, which ones come to mind?

Beowulf and The Canterbury Tales are medieval--but neither of those is about
The Devil . . . at least, not as a central character.  But what about Dants
Inferno?

The Devils literally at the bottom of things in that poem.

Is it possible that The Desk Poem is a paraphrase of The Inferno?

        cut
        clean
        if red/
        clean.
        blood spurting,
                dripping,
                    spilling;
        all over her new
        dress.
        oh well,
        it was red
        anyway.
        life draining into an
        uncertain death.
        she wot
        die.
        this time
        somone ll find her.
        just wait till
        next time.
                rh


Opening Quatrains

Lets compare the opening quatrains of the two poems:

     The Desk Poem          Dante's Inferno
    cut.                               Midway in my lifs journey
     clean.                            I strayed from the straight path
     if red.                            And found myself alone
     clean.                            In a dark wood.

At first blush, the passages dont seem at all similar.  But lets look more
closely.

What is Dante actually saying in the first four lines?

The Inferno is set in the year 1300, when Dante was 35.  The biblical span of
life is three-score-and-ten, or 70 years.  So, at 35, Dante was Midway in his
lifes journey.  In fact, The Inferno has often been called--humorously by
scholars--a poem about a mid-life crisis.

So if Im saying Dantes Inferno is a poem whose eventsa trip through Hellcut
the poets life in half, what am I saying about The Desk Poem?  Obviously, Im
saying the same thing.

    cut.
     clean.
     if red.
     clean.

The Cheri Bates murder, the Zodiac killer is saying, cuts his life CLEAN in
half.


CLEAN

But why repeat the word CLEAN?

Lets once again apply alphabet numbers to the word in question.

    C      L      E      A    N
    3  + 12  +  5  +  1 + 14 = 35

Again, this is a reference to the quatrain it paraphrases.  Dante was cutting
his life in half with the events of the poem.  He would visit Hell at age 35,
and then presumably live another 35 years.  Thus, the two CLEANs, which are
actually two 35s.

    cut.
    clean.
    if red.
    clean.

But what about if red?  I dont think red refers here to a color.  And
red cannot have anything to do with Cheri Bates, who was NOT wearing a red
dress when she was murdered--she was wearing maroon slacks.  I believe if red
means, 'if this is read properly'.

    cut.
    clean.
    if red.
    clean.

If this is read properly, youll see that Im cutting my life CLEAN in half
with the murder of Cheri Bates.  Which also means, I know EXACTLY when Im
going to die.


HELL GATE

We talked about how The Desk Poem is entirely in lower case except for the
first letter.  What about the other two messages?  Oddly enough, The Confession
Letter is entirely in UPPER CASE.  And that is also true of the first two Loose
Leaf Binder Notes.

Why would the Zodiac killer send messages consisting entirely of capital
letters?  In The Inferno, when Dante and the poet Virgil reach The Gates of
Hell, they find this inscription:

    THROUGH ME THE WAY INTO THE SUFFERING CITY,
    THROUGH ME THE WAY TO THE ETERNAL PAIN,
    THROUGH ME THE WAY THAT RUNS AMONG THE LOST.

    JUSTICE URGED ON MY HIGH ARTIFICER;
    MY MAKER WAS DIVINE AUTHORITY,
    ULTIMATE INTELLECT, AND PRIMORDIAL LOVE.

    BEFORE ME NOTHING BUT ETERNAL THINGS
    WERE MADE, AND I ENDURE ETERNALLY.
    ABANDON EVERY HOPE, WHO ENTER HERE.

Personally, I dont think eternal damnation is the answer to anything, but
then, Im also opposed to capital punishment.  Speaking of capitals, notice
that the message on the Gates of Hell is entirely upper case.  The first thing
you see of Hell is capital letters, so maybe going there IS a form of capital
punishment!  The Zodiac killer is taking you on a trip through Hell, so the
first messages from the Zodiac killer are also in capital letters.

    SHE WAS YOUNG AND BEAUTIFUL.
    BUT NOW SHE IS BATTERED AND DEAD.

    BATES HAD TO DIE.  THERE WILL BE MORE.

Make sense?


Upper Case


Wait a minute.  Why does the third LooseLeaf Note, which was addressed to Cheri
Bates's father, Joseph, at their house at 4195 Via San Jose in Riverside, say




Doesn't that break the pattern of UPPER-CASE LETTERING?  It does, but the
Zodiac killer gets some things in return for the slight break in pattern:

He gives Joseph Bates the mock-courtesy of saying 'She' rather than 'BATES',
which also makes the implicit point that he knows what her name is.  Reporting
on the mailing emphasized the cruelty inherent in sending such a letter to the
victim's father.  But more to the point, the Zodiac killer has gone to the
trouble of finding out her address, so that the mailing stresses the importance
of the victim's identity, not just the night of the murder, but in the overall
scheme.  This will be revisited at Blue Rock Springs, when he calls three
relatives of Darlene Ferrin less than two hours after her murder.  By not using
UPPER CASE LETTERING, he also avoids telling her father that she was destined
(metaphorically) for Hell.


TERRACINA

The closest actual street to where Cheri Batess body was dumped was Terracina
Drive.  The reader will learn that there are drawbacks to using street names to
identify oneself, though the Zodiac killer occasionally used street names to
make a point.  This particular street name is appropriate within the Dantes
Inferno allusion.

TERRACINA can be translated at least a couple of ways:

    as Little Terrace,

or as Through Earth (Terra) To China (Cina)

The second translation fits here.  Dante went down through the Earth until he
reached the bottom of Hell.  Dante was unaware, in the 14th century, that the
Earth is a spinning sphere, but if you go straight through the Earth from
Riverside, youll (figuratively) wind up in China.

This also explains why the Zodiac killer will place his two buried victims in
Chinatowns.


Confession Envelope



The Confession Letter envelope was addressed:

            DAILY ENTERPRISE
                 RIVERSIDE
                             CALIF
 ATTN: CRIME

Once again, we have ALL CAPS.  Which means we know where the letters coming
from, figuratively speaking.  The name of the newspaper was Riverside
Enterprise.  As Gareth Penn pointed out, the address doesnt contain the
papers street address or post office box number.

What it does contain, for those of us preoccupied with pi, are circles.  Each
i in the address is dotted with a circle, except for the i in Calif.  In
fact, the is all look like lollipops!  And the colon following Attn
consists of two circles.  In other words, counting up the is and adding two
for the colon should normally get you eight circles, but because of the Zodiac
killers intentional failure to dot the i in Calif, it only contains seven.

Dantes Inferno presents a vision of Hell consisting of nine descending
circles, each circle featuring the punishment for a particular type of crime. 
The type of crime punished in the seventh circle is, you guessed it, murder. 
Which is the crime taken credit for in the letter itself.

Remember, Michael OHare evokes pi because the binary form of pi spells out his
name in digital Morse code.  And pi has to do with the behavior of circles.

So he alludes to a literary work that consists almost entirely of circles.


Ripper Letter

Theres an interesting historical footnote to all this.  The only serial killer
who wrote to the newspapers prior to the Zodiac may have been Jack The Ripper
himself.  The authorities in 1888 received a letter containing what was
supposedly a kidney cut from one of his victims (remember, this was a hundred
years before DNA testing) with the return address, From Hell.

Its possible the Zodiac killer was paying tribute to his forebear by evoking
this Hellish return address.  The Zodiac killer doesnt bother to continue
doing this once he starts writing letters in the Bay Area.  He harps on a theme
for several letters or crimes, and then moves on to other ideas, as if hes
made his point.  This, once again, is what an artist does.  Picasso had his
rose period, then his blue period, then his cubist period, and so on . . . and
so does the Zodiac killer.

But he always signs his work.


Riverside Crossroads

The murder of Cheri Bates represents the crossroads of Michael OHares life. 
But thats true of any killer, because we tend to view a person differently
once he has committed a murder.  O. J. Simpson had one kind of public persona
prior to June 12, 1994.  After that day, he was put in a completely different
category by most people (usually depending on what category they put themselves
in).  On that day, to many of us, he became a killer.  Note that this
transformation is particularly striking for serial killers, who take on their
public persona--their super-villain identity--once they commit their first
murder.

With his first murder, David Berkowitz became The Son Of Sam.

With his first murder, Peter Sutcliffe became The Yorkshire Ripper.

With his first murder, Gary Ridgway became The Green River Killer.

So when did Michael OHare become The Zodiac?

He became The Zodiac when he killed Cheri Bates, at the crossroads of his own
life, which was arrived at down the gravel driveway from Terracina Drive on the
RCC campus.  So lets examine the specific place on Planet Earth where The
Zodiac committed his first murder.


How To Sign Your Name Anywhere

Lets assume youre about to commit your first murder and you want to take
credit for your work by signing your name.  And youre going to sign on the
planet itself, because thats your canvas.  How would you do that?



Let me demonstrate by signing my own name to a hypothetical murder.  My name is
Raymond Grant, and theres a Grant Street in downtown Pittsburgh, so lets say
I dump a body on Grant Street.  That was easy, but there are a lot of Grants
out there.


Maybe theres an intersecting alley off Grant Street called Raymond Way?  So I
dump the body at the intersection of Raymond Way and Grant Street.  Im sure
thered be newspaper accounts of the murder which wouldnt take much notice of
the intersection itself.  In fact, there might even be TV coverage which showed
the spot of the murder, with the camera panning back to reveal the intersection
street sign reading Raymond Grant.  Even so, its extremely unlikely anyone
covering the crime would assume someone with my name had committed it.

In any case, this would be hard to pull off in the real world.  I would have to
find street names corresponding to my identity, and while there really is a
Grant Street in downtown Pittsburgh, theres no alley called Raymond Way that
Im aware of.  But theres a more sophisticated way of doing the same thing. 
And its relatively foolproof.

Remember the radio telescope scene in Close Encounters Of The 3rd Kind?  The
aliens dont say, Meet us at Devils Tower in Wyoming.  They say,  Meet us
at

    104    44    30            40    36    10

As the translator points out, those are Earth coordinates!  If youre creating
designs on the planet, the logical way to sign your name is by using numbers. 
Its more precise, plus USGS coordinates apply to every spot on the globe, so
you have the entire canvas to play with.

People may object to the idea of a number representing a person, but when money
is exchanged in our society--which after all is the bottom line--we mostly use
numbers, not letters.

We put our state drivers licence number on our checks.
The drivers licence itself contains our date of birth.
Our tax returns are filed using our social security number.

For most of us, those three sets of digits dont change.

117 Degrees, 23 Minutes

Lets take a look at the USGS coordinates of the Cheri Bates murder, which
apparently occurred a few yards below Terracina Drive on the campus of
Riverside City College.  There are computer programs which provide USGS
coordinates for any address.  If you type in 4800 Magnolia in Riverside,
California, the address of RCC, you should get the following coordinates:

      117? West Longitude

        23? North Latitude

If what Im saying--about his first murder being a crossroads where the law-
abiding citizen becomes the serial killer--is correct, then this set of
coordinates should represent both the identity of my suspect, Michael OHare,
and that of what he became with the murder, his alter ego, The Zodiac.  Does
it?  Well, one of Michael OHares permanent personal numbers is his social
security number, which is

       117-32-2128

Obviously, 117? degrees corresponds to the first three numbers of his SSN.  And
Michael OHare, who was born on Friday, January 22, 1943, was 23 years old on
October 30, 1966, so

      117?    2    West

can also be read as,

   117, at age 23

This works as a shorthand identification for Michael OHare in 1966.  He
obviously could have used more of his SSN, but then he cant make a reference
to his age at the time, and his age is crucial to the whole design (remember,
hes cutting his life CLEAN in two).

33 Degrees, 58 Minutes

Lets look at the other coordinate.

      33?    5    North

The readers been very understanding so far,  so Ill give him some latitude.

     T      H     E                   Z      O      D       I       A     C
   20 +  8  + 5  =  33        26  + 15  + 4  +   9  +   1 +  3  =  58    

Again, this is just straightforward alphabet substitution.  The USGS
coordinates for the Riverside murder record the change from Michael OHare
(117? at age 23) into THE ZODIAC (33-58).

If you look again at his letters, you will note that he never calls himself
Zodiac, even though Robert Graysmith titled his book that way, and director
David Fincher calls him that throughout his movie.  The killer always calls
himself The Zodiac, as in, This is THE Zodiac speaking.

Not so much to indicate that he was the definite article, but because the
latitude in Riverside spells his name that way.  For those of you who were
wondering why the Zodiac never actually used his assumed name in Riverside, but
only hinted at it (with the Z at the bottom of The Loose Leaf Notes, and with
his brief admission in The LA Times Letter) . . . thats why.

His stage name THE ZODIAC was embedded in the venue itself, and he wanted us to
find it.


Alphabet Substitution

By the way, who said the Zodiac killer was using alphabet substitution?

Well . . . I say it.  And the Zodiac killer also says it.

After The Confession Letter, which is unsigned (an unsigned confession being as
good as no confession at all), there are two signed messages in Riverside.

The Loose Leaf Notes are signed with a Z, and The Desk Poem is signed rh.

Graysmith speculates that 'rh' means RH Factor, but I think thats a Red
Herring.

Most of us go by different versions of our names.  My family calls me
Raymond.  My friends call me Ray (this is beginning to sound like the old
Ace Trucking Company routine).  And my bosses at The U. S. Postal Service call
me Grant.  And, obviously, I can sign notes either Ray or Grant or even
RG.  And the people reading them will assume that Ray is Grant.

So lets assume the same thing about the Zodiac killer, that

       is   rh

And since the Zodiac killer is into math, lets convert that statement into
mathematical terms.

    Z      =     rh

But how can Z possibly equal rh?  Why dont we try putting alphabet numbers
under the letters?

     Z    =      r    h
   26    =    18    8

Now it all adds up, doesnt it?

    26  =    18 + 8

Correct?  So the Zodiac killer was using alphabet numbers to identify himself. 
And the letters at the bottom in Riverside werent his initials.  They were a
key to his coding system.


Nostradamus

Lets go back to The Desk Poem.  I said hes paraphrasing Dants Inferno, but
why in Hell would he do that?  Why doesnt he just tell us who he is?

Maybe thats exactly what hes doing?  Remember: he always signs his name.  So
if the first four lines of The Desk Poem are an allusion to the opening stanza
of Dants Inferno, then there must be something in that opening stanza that
tells us who the Zodiac killer is!

But how could a 14th century poem contain the name of the 20th centurys most
notorious uncaptured serial killer?  Is this another of those books about
Nostradamus?

Not exactly.  Lets look one more time at the passage he evokes in The Desk
Poem:

    Midway in my lifs journey
    I strayed from the straight path
    And found myself alone
    In a dark wood.

How could that possibly tell you who he is?  Well, one thing we know about the
Zodiac killer--hes economical.  He only killed a handful of people (that we
know about), and his reign of terror, such as it was, lasted just a few months,
and yet his name is more evocative than that of any serial killer of the past
century.  If he were going to tell you who he was in a literary passage, what
would be the most direct and economical way of doing that?

How about with the first word?

     Midway

Hes Midway through his life when he kills Cheri Bates.

But maybe hes Midway in some other sense as well?


Midway

   
    Midway in my lifs journey
    I strayed from the straight path
    And found myself alone
    In a dark wood.

    Midway . . .

The Zodiac killer is Midway through his life in Riverside.  And most English
translations of The Infernobegin with MIDWAY.  But what does the word Midway
mean to us?

Well, it was a famous naval battle during WWII--the Battle of Midway, named for
Midway Island in the Pacific.  But that doesnt seem to get us anywhere.

Wait--wasnt there an airport in Chicago called Midway?  Thats right, and it
was the busiest airport in the world!  Midway--which was renamed in 1949 after
The Battle of Midway, was the worlds busiest airport from 1932 until 1962. 
But in 1962, the title of Worlds Busiest Airport was claimed by another, newly
built, Chicago airport.

    Hare

So, in a sense, the names Midway and OHare are synonyms, both standing for
an airport that once was the worlds busiest.

When the Zodiac killer says,  I am Midway., he is also saying,  I am
OHare.


ORD

The 3-letter designation (every airport has one) for OHare airport is

    ORD

Remember the Zodiac killers scorecard stat in The Exorcist Letter of January
29, 1974?

    Me - 37

The anagram for ZODIAC (CADOIZ) converts to 3, followed by 7 digits of pi.

Lets see what the alphabet numbers are for the OHare airport code!

      O      R     D
      15 +  18 + 4  =  37

ORD is just one of many instances where the Zodiac killer says, implicitly, 
I am pi.

Incidentally, Ive mentioned that Michael OHare was not alone in his pursuit
of the Zodiac Project, and the letters ORD, converted to Morse code/binary
math, hint at the same thing:

         O     R    D
       111  010  100    (Morse/binary)

    1110101    00
            117    x4

We recognize 117 as an identifier (SSN) for Michael OHare.  I will demonstrate
other examples of the name OHARE showing up in the Zodiac killer lore.

Murder Date

Why did the Zodiac killer pick October 30, 1966 to begin his project?

Besides its being Devils Night?

For example, why not 10/30/67 instead?

The Zodiac literature is partly about dead languages (like Morse code) and
essentially silent languages (like binary math, the language of computers). 
Gareth Penn mentions, in Times 17, the death of one Dolly Pentreath on December
26, 1777.



Dolly Pentreath is significant because she was the last native speaker of the
Cornish language; when she died, in a sense, Cornish died with her, at least as
a living language.

Heres a little experiment for the reader to try.  Take your calculator and
enter the year 1777.
Then multiply that number by the alphabet letters for ZODIAC:

         Z     O    D     I    A    C
    26 + 15 + 4 +  9 + 1 + 3 = 58

      58 x 1777 = ?


Pure Speculation

I dont think Cheri Bates ever went into the RCC library.  I believe Michael
OHare either accosted her at gunpoint after she parked her car, or that
perhaps Hugh Penn flashed his California Highway Patrol ID as she was getting
out, and got her to go with him.  In either case, she was then quickly gagged
and tied up pending her murder later in the evening.

What appeared to happen afterward was essentially staged by The Zodiac Project
personnel.  She was obviously selected in advance; she must have been, or her
killer wouldnt have disabled her engine.  Even though he probably kidnapped
her, he disabled it anyway to make the point that CHERI BATES was the intended
target.

Why do I believe this nonsense?  I believe this nonsense because when the
Riverside Police reconstructed the night of the murder two weeks later, on
November 13, 1966, with the full cooperation of all 65 students and staff who
were at the RCC library that night, no one remembered seeing her, even though
RPD dressed a blonde about Cheris build and height in the same outfit Cheri
had been wearing that night, just to remind the participants of what she would
have looked like that evening.

Believing Cheri was in the RCC library for almost three hours means believing
none of her friends saw her.  It also means believing she didnt see them,
since Cheri Bates seldom did anything without telling at least one of her
friends about it.

Police said two people were unaccounted for at the reconstruction: a bearded
man in his 20s, and a woman.  That could easily have been Michael Henry OHare,
aged 23, and his mother, Berta Margoulies, aged 59, that evening.


Electoral College

A greasy palm print and three books on the electoral college were left on the
passenger seat of Cheri Batess lime green VW Beetle.  I believe Michael
OHare, and not Cheri Bates, took those books out, using Cheris library card
to do so.  Such college ID cards in 1966 were normally hard plastic with a
keypunch code, and did not feature pictures of the student.  In the unlikely
event he was challenged, he could have said he was taking books out for a girl
friend.

The telltale clue is to be found in the Library of Congress classification for
the electoral college:

     JK 529

The sequence (J, K . . . L) equates the letter L to a squared number, and we
will see a double-L--or squared 12--in The Cryptogram material.  The number 529
is 23-squared.

     529 = 232

Remember, I said that Michael OHare was 23 at the time of the Riverside
murder.  Thats why the longitude reads

    117?    23

 . . . which is meant to be read as 117 (Michael OHares SSN) at age 23. 
The Desk Poem states the murder was meant to CUT his life CLEAN in half, i. e.,
he would have lived 23 years as Michael OHare, and then 23 years as The
Zodiac.  Then his life would come to an end.

    23    23

The electoral college Library of Congress classification number--529, or 23-
squared--is just one of many forms of this idea we will find hidden throughout
the Zodiac lore.  I will focus on this aspect of The Zodiac Project in the next
chapter.  But first, a final thought about 529 itself.



Zip Codes

If you look at the zip code for Riverside, you can see the two ends of the
railroad track that is The Zodiac Project in the mirror-image numbers.  The zip
code for Riverside City College at 4800 Magnolia is 92506.

    925___________________529
 (Riverside)               (Terminus)

As Gareth Penn once told me, and as Ive already mentioned, the chief design
element of The Zodiac Project is symmetry.  What you see in the beginning, you
see at the end.

Another advantage to postal zip codes is that, like SSNs and DOBs, they never
change.

Interestingly, theres no postal zip code that begins 529--.
Davenport, Iowa is 528--, and Adell, Wisconsin is 530--.
But 529-- is a place that doesnt exist.

Except, perhaps, in The Twilight Zone.  And in The Zodiac Project.


Riverside Timex

When Cheri Bates's body was found on Monday morning, October 31, 1966, a Timex
wrist watch with a broken black band, stopped at 12:22, was found ten feet from
the body.

Somehow, an extremely time-conscious killer (The Confession Letter is loaded
with time references) armed with a flashlight (since he had opened the hood of
her car and pulled out the middle wire from the distributor) had had his
timepiece yanked off his wrist in the death struggle with Cheri Bates, and he
hadn't missed it and/or bothered to come back for it.

It makes no sense that such a time-conscious killer would be wearing a watch
that had already stopped, and the watch couldn't have been stopped in the
violence of the attack itself, since the attack occurred around 10:30pm that
night and the watch was stopped at 12:22.

What happened?

Could the watch have been left behind intentionally, as a clue?


71 Degrees

Im sure there are viewers of David Finchers Zodiac who walked out thinking, 
I wonder where that guy was coming from?  Michael OHare leaves a Timex wrist
watch behind in Riverside, among other reasons, to TELL us where he was coming
from.  Remember that, geologically speaking, time is an indicator of space,
specified in minutes and seconds.

      T      I     M    E     X
    20 + 9 + 13 + 5 + 24  =  71

TIMEX is 71 by alphabet numbers.  Since we were talking about longitude and
latitude a little while ago, could that number possibly designate an Earth
coordinate?

71? North or South Latitude would put us in the polar regions.
It seems unlikely the Zodiac killer came from either the North or South Pole.

71? East Longitude puts us in Western India and Pakistan.  I realize the Zodiac
killer resorted to his own brand of terrorism, but it's doubtful hes a charter
member of Al Qaeda.

That leaves 71? West Longitude, a meridian that travels south through Canada
and goes through one major American city before heading out into the Atlantic
Ocean.  That city is Boston, Massachusetts, the home town of Michael OHare
through most of the Zodiac killer years.  Oddly enough, if you look at TIMEX
another way, you get the same answer.


(617)

Convert TIMEX to digital Morse code (1 for dash, 0 for dot) and you get the
following:

    T     I      M     E       X
     1    00    11    0    1001 = 617

617 is the telephone area code for Boston, Massachusetts.  Coming from this
part of the country might also explain why the Zodiac killer uses the phrase
XMass in his second Vallejo letter.

The reader will notice, in future sections, that the Zodiac killer very often
will choose a word or idea that gets the same result, arrived at through two
different decoding methods.  This is an echo of The Zodiac Projects main
design feature, which is symmetry.


12:22

The Timex watch in Riverside was stopped at 12:22.

Nothing pertaining to Cheri Batess murder happened anywhere near that time, so
its clear that the watch did NOT stop as a result of the Zodiac killers
struggle with his victim.

Timexes arent supposed to stop anyway,  for any reason.  John Cameron Swayze
strapped them up to fan blades, airplane propellers, and even washing machine
agitators in commercials from the 1950s, and the watch never stopped once on
live TV.

So its reasonable to assume the Zodiac killer stopped the watch and placed it
at the murder scene as a clue.  Why?

Again, remember what I said in the previous section.  In geological terms,
space is measured in words we usually associate with timekeepingminutes and
seconds.

Let's look again at the California/Nevada border.  Assume the border represents
a clock face, with the vertical line the hour hand and the horizontal one the
minute hand.  What time is it?



The important thing to remember about the Timex is that it gave the wrong time
and the wrong impression.  It didnt tell us WHEN something HAPPENED.

It told us WHERE something was GOING TO HAPPEN.

On October 30, 1966, the Zodiac left, at the Cheri Bates crime scene, a map of
a future murder.  The Timex watch is the map.

It predicts where the murder of Donna Lass will take place on September 6,
1970at Lake Tahoe/Stateline, on the California/Nevada border.


9:07

I've been criticized by several Zodiac researchers for suggesting that the
Timex watch in Riverside was, in fact, stopped at 12:22.  These researchers
insist, based upon what appears to be a photograph of the watch whose source no
one can identify, that the watch was never actually stopped.  This photo of the
watch has it showing a time of 9:07.



The logic goes that, since the watch was photographed at the crime scene and
apparently later at headquarters, and it shows two DIFFERENT times (9:07 and
12:22), the Timex must therefore still have been running when it was found
beside Cheri Bates's body.

There are numerous sources for the information that the watch was stopped at a
time given variously as 12:22, 12:23, and 12:24.

Here's a quote from pages 8-9 of This Is The Zodiac Speaking (2002), by David
Van Nuys:

Forensic evidence was discovered under the victis fingernails, and a Timex
wristwatch with a broken strap was found about ten feet from her body. The
wristwatch was exceptionally large (seven-inch diameter) and had speckles of
paint on its face. Investigators theorized that the watch belonged to Cheri
Js attacker and that it had been ripped away during the death struggle. The
watch had stopped running at 12:22, although it is almost certain that she had
been murdered some two hours earlier.

Here's a link to Jake Wark's Crime Library article which also mentions the
stopped Timex:

http://www.trutv.com/library/crime/serial_killers/notorious/zodiac/river_1.html

I'll mention a third source which I consider definitive.


Homicide Detail

I sent an email to the homicide detail of The Riverside Police Department,
asking them to verify as best they could (considering the passage of time)
whether or not the Timex left beside Cheri Bates's body had been stopped at 12:
22 (or 12:23, or some similar time).

I received the following reply to that email:

Mr. Grant.

You probably can realize that the Cheri Bates case has been passed down over
the years to many different homicide detectives here at Riverside P.D.  Each
detective has reviewed the case and conducted additional follow up interviews
including submitting evidence for analysis as technology has progressed over
the years.  After speaking with several recent detectives that have reviewed
the case, it is my understanding that the time on the watch is not of
significant value in identifying a suspect.  It is possible that the 9:07 time
was from the reenactment as you mentioned in your email.

I hope this answers your questions.

Detective Jim Simons
Riverside Police Department
Robbery-Homicide Unit

THE time on THE watch is not of significant value in identifying a suspect.

In other words, the watch was stopped.  That couldn't mean anything else.

If the watch was still running, would homicide detectives determine that the
time on the watch was not of significant value in identifying a suspect?

Would detectives even address the issue of the significance of the watch time,
if the watch time was changing every minute?


Riverside Review

Weve covered a lot of material here in Riverside, so lets review:


      1. Cheri Bates was murdered on Devis Night.

      2. You can disguise a literary quotation just by changing the words.

      3. The Desk Poem paraphrasesDants Inferno.

      4. The Zodiac killer quotes The Inferno because its Hell is made up of
circles.

      5. The Cheri Bates murder cuts the Zodiac killes life CLEAN in half.

      6. The Zodiac killer uses capital letters because thas whas on The
Gates of Hell.

      7.Terracin Drive is another reference toDants Inferno.

      8. The Confession Letter envelope evokes Hels 7th Circlfor murder.

      9. A serial killes first murder transforms him into his public persona.

    10. You cansign your nam on the map using USGS coordinate numbers.

    11. In Riverside, Michael Hare (117 at 23) became THE ZODIAC (33-58).

    12. Thesignature (Z, rh) are a key, indicating use of alphabet numbers.

    13. The first word ofDants InferMidwis a synonym forHar.

    14. Hare Airpors code, ORD, is 37, a numerical synonym for pi.

    15. TIMEX (as 71 and 617) is a numerical reference to Boston, MA.

    16. The stopped watch at 12:22 is a map of a future murder at Lake Tahoe.

    17. 10-30-66 is ZODIAC (58) times Dolly Pentreath (1777).

    18. Cheri Bates probably never reached the RCC Library that night.

    19. The Electoral College books (JK 529) are meant to denote 23/23.

    20. The zip code for Riverside (925--) is a bookend for 23-squared (--529).


Lets now briefly look at Michael OHare . . . as he was in 1966/67.


Michael O'Hare 1967

Im suggesting a connection between the Zodiac killer and Michael OHare.

Im suggesting theyre the same person, but with a different face presented to
the world.

But lets assume Im wrong, and they ARENT one and the same.

In 1966/1967, the Zodiac was killing Cheri Bates in Riverside and sending
letters to the newspapers and police.  I myself was attending high school, 10th
grade at Taylor Allderdice in Pittsburgh, and completely oblivious to all
this.  Im sure theres a lesson in there somewhere.

If the Zodiac killer and Michael OHare lived in separate worlds, it seems
reasonable to assume those worlds would not intersect with one another.  We
know what the Zodiac was doing in 1966/1967.  But what was Michael OHare doing
in 1966/1967?

It may seem like a long time ago, but theres a record of one of Mr. OHares
projects from back then, and it's available at most public libraries.  And
unlike the books found on Cheri Batess car seat, a library card isnt
necessary to gain access to that material.


WWs

Michael OHare cut his life CLEAN in half with the Cheri Bates murder.  He
wanted to spend 23 years (1943-1966) as Michael OHare.  Then he wanted to
spend 23 years (1966-1989) as The Zodiac.  And then hed go out with a very Big
Bangabout which, more later.  But first, let me demonstrate that this idea of
23 followed by 23 is all over the Zodiac murders and letters.

If youre using alphabet letters to substitute for numbers, what letter do you
use to substitute for the number 23?  Obviously, youd use the 23rd letter--W. 
And if you were going to suggest the dichotomy of 23/23, you would most likely
use a double-W, right?

     W    W

The Zodiac killer uses several forms of this idea in its alphabetic form, W/W,
as well as its numeric forms 23/23, 2 x 23, and even 2-23.  Lets cite some of
the double-Ws:


    a. The Timex in Riverside is a Wrist Watch.

    b. The shoeprints at Lake Berryessa are identified as Wing Walkers.

    c. In two Cryptogram cover letters, he threatens a rampage covering the
Whole Weekend.


But the most ballistic example occurs in the parking lot at Blue Rock Springs.


W-Ws

At Blue Rock Springs, for the first and only time in his career, the Zodiac
killer is profligate in his use of ammo, even to the point of being trigger
happy.

Lets quickly review how economical hes been elsewhere:

        1. Riverside--3 slashes to the throat and done;

        2. Lake Herman Road--one shot to David Faradays temple, five shots in
Betty Lou Jensens upper torso (though he does use four initial shots to herd
them from the car);

        3. Lake Berryessa--7 stab wounds to Bryan Hartnell, 10 to Cecelia Ann
Shepard . . . and he never actually fires his .45;

        4. Presidio Heights--one shot to the back of Paul Stines head.

But at Blue Rock Springs, he sprays the victims as if it was a water hose,
even coming back to the victims car for a second go-round.  Why?

Could it possibly be because he was using Winchester Western ammo at that
venue?

    Winchester    Western

    W                    W
 

When the Vallejo detectives examine the shell casings littering the crime
scene, they see that theyre all marked W-W.

[Sergeant Ed Rust] continued to inspect the inside of the car and found on the
right rear floorboard two spent shell casings, brass, marked with a "W-W"; they
appeared to Rust to be 9-mm ammunition.  Robert Graysmith, Zodiac, page 32 of
the hardcover edition

The Zodiac killer sprays W-Ws all over the parking lot at Blue Rock Springs to
emphasize that W-W is one of the main themes of the Zodiac murders.


Wind Whistles

Now that Ive mentioned it, some of you are probably wondering what Michael
OHare WAS doing around the time of the Riverside murder and its subsequent
events.  If you want to see for yourself, and have the unique experience of
witnessing criminal activity frozen in time on the pages of an academic
journal, take a walk down to your local city library.  In March 1967, Michael
OHare published his maiden journal article in Progressive Architecture
Magazine:



    "Wind Whistles Though MIT Tower"

Kind of an odd title for an academic article, isnt it?

     Wind Whistles

     W      W

Here is Michael OHares first public paper, one might even say his first
public fart (since he's breaking wind), held up for the Whole World to see, and
the first thing out of his mouth is W-W.  The choice of project is doubly
significant, because The MIT Tower was to be one of the target sites on the
last day of The Zodiac Project.


117 Degrees

The diagrams on page 4 of the Progressive Architecture article include a model
of The MIT Tower with a stick or strut leaning against it in such a way as to
produce a 117? angle.



The angle has been artificially emphasized by the authors having placed tape
at each end of the stick, in such a way as a naturally-occurring shadow would
never have appeared.



He is thus calling our attention to that angle.  The angle of the shadow is
117?.

The longitude of the spot where Cheri Bates was murdered was 117? West.

Among other things, this reminds us that USGS coordinates and geometric angles
use the same language (both are expressed in degrees), and the Zodiac will make
use of this linguistic flexibility elsewhere.  117? is a reference to the
Riverside murder, which would have occurred about the same time as the
preparation for this article.  One must assume that the author, who could time
his Zodiac killer mailings down to the day, had no direct influence over the
publication date of this article, but he knew it would come out either late in
1966 or early in 1967.


Two 23s

Gareth Penns book, Times 17, mentions the 117? angle on the model.  But he
fails to point out that, under the picture of the model, the author has also
written the number 23 twice.



So Michael OHare twice makes the same point that the Zodiac killer has been
making, that double-Ws and 23/23 are important clues to his identity.

By the way, if anyone out there has a perfectly logical alternative
explanation for all this odd behavior on Mr. OHares part, Id certainly like
to hear it.  Were not talking here about the preoccupations of a crazed serial
killer.  Were talking about a respected member of the academic community . . .
who also happens to be a serial killer.


DNA

Now is as good a time as any to suggest a thematic reason for dividing ones
life into 23-year halves, as opposed, say, to Dantes 35.  Dantes 35/35
dichotomy is Bible-based, on a life expectancy of 70.  So why would Michael
OHare choose 23/23 instead?

Why not 35/35, or, if hindsight is perfect, 20/20?

Because sight isnt enough.  An artist must also provide in-sight: into human
life, a connection to the general population for his art, otherwise anything he
creates is merely subjective.

Michael OHares life was to be divided into segments of 23/23.  But so, in a
matter of speaking, are all our lives.  Its in our genes.

Every human cell consists of 46 chromosomes.

23 are donated by the mother.

And 23 are donated by the father.

DNA, which is now used to identify perpetrators by crime labs (a form of
progress which probably couldnt have been anticipated in 1966), thematically
identifies Michael OHare as the Zodiac killer.  His scheme is literally an
example of Art imitating DNA.


O'Hare 1967 Review

This book accuses former Harvard lecturer Michael OHare of being the Zodiac
killer.  This chapter makes the case that Michael OHare was preoccupied with
the same things the Zodiac killer was preoccupied with, and at the same time
(1966/67).


 
      1. There are WWs sprinkled all over the Zodiac crimes and letters.

      2. The Zodiac killer sprays the BRS parking lot with shells markedW-.

      3. Michael Hars Progressive Architecture article (3/67) features:


           a, As a titWind Whistles Through MIT Towe.

           b, 117?, the longitude of Riverside, projected onto the MIT Tower.

           c, The number 23 written twice under the picture of the model.


      4. He divides his life into two 23s because DNA (life) is 23/23.


Both of his identities made their preoccupations public.

The serial killer put them on the front pages of newspapers.

The academic hid them on the back  pages of an engineering journal.



Vallejo

Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** Shelly Holmboe ******

Beginning with his mailing of The School Bus Threat Letter on October 13, and
then continuing with the murder of Shelly Holmboe on October 19, and finally
ending on October 22 with the much-dramatized (in the movie Zodiac) appearance
of Melvin Belli on the Jim Dunbar TV show, Zodiac-related events shook the San
Francisco Bay Area for ten days in October 1969.  Im linking the three events
here (a mailing, a murder, and a phone call) because they are all connected,
one following from the next.

The School Bus Threat Letter was mailed two days after the Paul Stine murder. 
It looks back on that murder, and forward with a new threat, apparently
directed against the children riding school buses, but actually predicting the
Zodiac killer's next (secret) murder.

The murder of Shelly Holmboe, though resembling other Zodiac murders and
containing some of the same cryptic indicators, has never been listed as an
official Zodiac murder.

The call to the Oakland Police Department was both an announcement of this
recent murder and a self-contained explanation for ALL his telephone calls,
hidden in an apparent request for publicity.

The three events are linked, not just chronologically, but thematically.

The letter and phone call are examples of the Zodiac killer using mass
mediathe newspapers and televisionto get his message out.  Oddly enough, it
is the Zodiac killer coming closest to the Marshall McLuhan dictum--oft-quoted
in the 1960s--that The Medium Is The Message, but not in a way that anyone
receiving the information understood.

The two public events sandwich the death of a 1-year old infant, which was
apparently downplayed both because SFPD thought the killing had been done by
animals and to avoid subjecting the parents to the further pain and scrutiny
that an association with the Zodiac murders would bring.

What is clear, looking back on the three episodes, is that they predict the
expansion of the Zodiac murders into a cultural phenomenon, not just a news
cycle, and that it would be his intent to reach as large an audience as
possible.



Trip Book Entry

On October 13, 1969, the Zodiac killer mailed the first of two letters
ostensibly recapping the Paul Stine murder.

    This is the Zodiac speaking
    I am the murderer of the
    taxi driver over by
    Washington St & Maple St last
    night, to prove this here is
    a blood stained piece of his
    shirt

Note that the Zodiac killer repeats the trip book notation, Washington & Maple,
instead of the actual murder corner (Washington & Cherry).

This is yet another mistake that calls attention to itself.  He makes this
one to remind everyone that the original destination was Maple Street, not
Cherry Street.

Paul Stine survived the trip to Maple Street.

He didnt survive Cherry Street because that was virgin territory.


Publicity

In October 1969, police in the San Francisco Bay Area began escorting school
buses wherever they went.  There were numerous news segments on TV about it,
all in response to two sentences written by the Zodiac killer, a man they could
have arrested three nights earlier if theyd been paying attention.    

    School children make nice targ-
    ets, I think I shall wipe out
    a school bus some morning.  Just
    shoot out the front tire & then
    pick off the kiddies as they come
    bouncing out.

The main purpose of the school bus threat is to keep the Zodiac killer on the
front pages of the newspapers.  Once  the Stine murder is done, he knows that
his time onstageat least, as a killeris over.  So he has to threaten
something so horrible, the public will pay attention and keep paying attention
for a long time to come.

But there was another reason to make the threat, even though he never had any
intention of carrying it out.


Child Victims?

As the Zodiac killer will say in a subsequent letter (April 20, 1970):

    PS I hope you have fun trying
    to figgure out who I killed.

The disappearance of Donna Lass, who was murdered almost a year after The
School Bus Threat Letter, was convincingly Zodiac-like to engage several police
agencies in attempts to find her body, based on clues in Zodiac letters.

So clearly, authorities believed he might still be KILLING PEOPLE.

Incidentally, I will be discussing the burial location of Donna Lass when I
come to that crime.

But after the Stine murder, his killings became as cryptic as his ciphers.

Wouldnt it make sense if, immediately following his final public murder, the
Zodiac killer gave a hint as to his next, secret murder?  So the second
reason for making the school bus threat, which appears out of the blue, is to
anticipate that next murder.  The school bus threat is the last thing he does,
immediately prior to murdering a child.

Remember, the chief design aspect of the Zodiac murders is symmetry, so there
are always at least two reasons for everything he does.  The school bus threat
is a wake-up call, but not in the sense the police think it is.  It tells the
public the Zodiac killer is capable of committing murders that would ordinarily
be considered off limits even to serial killers.

Such as the premeditated murder of a one-year-old.


Shelly Holmboe 1

Shelly Holmboe, 1, disappeared from her home at 1709 Peony Lane in Los Gatos on
Sunday evening, October 19, 1969.  Her body was found in a field near her
house.  She had been stabbed and nearly decapitated in a manner similar to the
killing of Cheri Bates, who had also died on a Sunday.  A man in his 20s was
seen running from the area where her body was found.



The killing defied any psychological profile that police were familiar with--
a child snatched and murdered immediately.  The child had not been molested. 
Nor was the crime an attempted kidnapping gone wrong, since the child had not
been discovered missing for some time.  There was no outcry when she was
abducted, and therefore no reason for the kidnapper to panic.
It didnt make sense.

In Robert Graysmiths Zodiac, on page 120 of the hardcover edition, he mentions
how the police were puzzled by the Zodiacs sudden claim of seven victims in
the two November 1969 letters.  Two San Jose teenagers were killed in early
August, but those murders would be attributed to another killer within two
years.  Graysmith then notes that,  Toschi knew of no other killings, with the
exception of an infant that he suspected had been killed by dogs.

The infant Graysmith was talking about was Shelly Holmboe.

Im not absolutely sure the Zodiac killed Shelly Holmboe.
I cant be, because accounts of the death itself are sketchy.
But I think he did.  And I believe subsequent events point back to it.

Its a terrible crime, even for the Zodiac killer.  Clearly, the school bus
threat is a hint, out of the blue and less than a week prior to the murder,
that he is capable of killing a child.

The Zodiac killers radian is apexed on Mt. Diablo at VABM 3849, which among
other things is the intersection of The Mt. Diablo Base Line and The Mt. Diablo
Meridian, which are found on USGS maps of the area.

Shelly Holmboes body was found either right beside or directly on The Mt.
Diablo Meridian.

The reader will object that the Zodiac killer always announces his murders.

But the Shelly Holmboe murder is the first of four secret murders.

Nonetheless, he does actually announce the murder with the very next thing he
does.


Shelly Holmboe 2

Why would someonewhy would ANYONE--kill a one-year old child?

Especially someone whos doing it to create a public puzzle?

The Zodiac killer was interested in aspects of the identities of the victims. 
But a one-year-old isnt going to have much to offer.  Shes got no social
security number, no public identity.

But we know Shelly Holmboe was a virgin.

We also know that her name contained the word EASTER.

  S     H    E    L       L      Y      H     O      L    M     B    O  E
000 0000 0 0100 0100 1011 0000 111 0100 11 1000 111 0

               0  01 000 1  0  010
               E  A    S   T E    R

I've talked about Michael O'Hare's preoccupation with dividing his life into
23/23.

Shelly Holmboe was 23 months old when she died.

And in the subsequent days and weeks following her death, her parents received
the same odd, harassing phone calls that relatives of other Zodiac victims
received, following their deaths.

That some of these calls were made by a woman might suggest, to some, that the
Zodiac killer wasn't involved, but since Berta Margoulies was the main planner
of The Zodiac Project, she could also have authored those female calls.

October 19, 1969 was also Hugh Penn's 56th birthday.


Shelly Holmboe 3

So why do it?

Why kill a little girl, just to make a point in a puzzle?

Because, from their vantage point, they had no choice.

The Zodiac Project is about art, language, history, literature . . . all
aspects of culture.

And it evokes one of the most horrifying memories in human history, the
practice of pagan sacrifice.  If the reader rents The Wicker Man from Netflix,
particularly the original film with Edward Woodward and Britt Eklund, which is
about pagan practices in (then) present-day Britain, he will find that the
intended victim of the pending pagan sacrifice is a young girl.

A young girl was the typical pagan sacrifice, because girls were less
economically important than boys in pastoral society, and probably also because
the child mortality rate was high anyway.

That's why the concept of virginity is so critical (as it was to prospective
grooms in pagan society, since otherwise paternity would be in doubt).

In the Roman Terminus ritual, animals were sacrificed, but that couldn't be
enough for The Zodiac Project.  To emphasize that they were sacrificing pre-
selected lives in ritual murder, as the Zodiac killer personified at Lake
Berryessa, wearing his ceremonial costume and stabbing the victims rather than
shooting them, at least one of his victims had to be an actual child.

The pagans who thus murdered children didn't do it joyfully; it had to be done
to appease the gods and assure a good harvest.

BATES HAD TO DIE, and Cheri was stabbed and nearly decapitated in a ritual
killing.

And Shelly Holmboe had to die, also stabbed and nearly decapitated in a ritual
manner.

She was an EASTER victim, a religious sacrifice.  And a Zodiac killer victim.


OPD Phone Call 1

A phone call came in to the Oakland Police Department at 2am Wednesday, October
22, 1969.

This is the Zodiac speaking.  I want you to get in touch with F. Lee Bailey. 
If you cat come up with Bailey ll settle for Mel Belli.  I want one or the
other to appear on the Channel Seven talk show.  ll make contact by
telephone.

The Oakland Police Department is an acrostic:

    Oakland Police Department
    O            P         D

    OPD        

OPD is the British version of our DOA (Dead On Arrival).

OPD means Officially Pronounced Dead.

It is as if the Zodiac killer were announcing another murder!

The interval is similar to that between the Paul Stine murder and The School
Bus Threat Letter, 2-3 days.  So the phone call could be an acknowledgment of
the Shelly Holmboe murder.  Remember, he doesnt need to acknowledge the Stine
murder a second time--hes already done that with the letter of October 13th
that includes the piece of Stines shirt.


OPD Phone Call 2

This is the Zodiac speaking.  I want you to get in touch with F. Lee Bailey. 
If you cat come up with Bailey ll settle for Mel Belli.  I want one or the
other to appear on the Channel Seven talk show.  ll make contact by
telephone.

F. Lee Bailey is yet another reference to his date of birth.

    F    Lee  Bailey
    F    L      B
    6    12     2

    6 is Morse/binary ME.

    M     E
    11     0 =    6    (Morse code/binary math)

    F    Lee Bailey
    F    L     B
    6    12    2

ME    122

So the statement really reads:

    (I am) 1-22.


Phone Calls 1

Since the call to The Oakland Police Department was, as far as anyone knows,
the Zodiac killers last official phone call (though he may also have called
a radio station in Oklahoma City in December 1969), this might be a good time
to comment on his habit of making phone calls after he commits his murders.

As we know, the Zodiac killer never does anything without a reason,
particularly if its something he does over and over.  Hes usually telling us
something about himself: specifically, who he is.

So lets recap:

     1, He refers to a phone call made either to the police or to The Riverside
Enterprise in The Confession Letter:

    YES I DID MAKE THAT CALL TO YOU ALSO.  

If he made one, Riverside PD hasnt come forward about it.

    2, He calls The Vallejo Sheriffs Office after the shootings at Blue Rock
Springs.  

    3, Later that night, he calls members of the Ferrin family long before any
reports air on the TV or radio about the murder.

    4, He calls Napa PD from the Napa Car Wash after the Lake Berryessa
attacks.

    5, Finally, on October 22, 1969, he calls Oakland PD and demands to talk
either to F. Lee Bailey or Melvin Belli.  The subsequent Channel 7 caper is
covered in David Finchers Zodiac.

I dont think the Zodiac killer ever intended to call the Channel 7 talk show.

By calling Oakland PD he was calling attention to the phone calls themselves. 
He was demonstrating, as dramatically as he possibly could, that his phone
calls had come to an end, that it was time to figure out their real intent. 
Its unfortunate, or perhaps even funny, that the phone calls to Belli from the
mental patient at Napa State Hospital ruined the intended effect, which was to
have the motor-mouthed Melvin sit waiting for a call that never came.
    
He didnt need to call them with information about himself; the act of calling
was itself packed with information.


Phone Calls 2

There was a great Ellery Queen TV show episode years ago, where a guy gets shot
while hes trapped in a phone booth.  He cant get out, and he doesnt have a
pen, but he picks the phone up and makes a call before he drops dead.

Ellery thinks--He tried to call the cops!  No.

Ellery thinks--He tried to call for help!  Nope.

Ellery stops thinking; they have the call traced.

It turns out he called a tailor in Brooklyn!
Someone the victim didnt even know.

Then it dawns on Ellery: The victim dialed his killers name, using the letters
on the phone dial.

The Zodiac killer did something almost identical to that, except to identify
himself.  And we have to keep in mind--he was using a 1960s rotary dial, not
the push button panels we have today.

Lets dial in the name ZODIAC on a phone dial and see what we get!

    Z  O   D  I    A  C
    --  6    3  4   2   2

Significant?  Definitely, if, like pi in binary, we read it backward.

But first, lets keep in mind that 6 is Morse/binary ME:

    M     E
    11     0 =    6    (Morse code/binary math)

So, reading the statement backward, we get:

    C   A    I    D        O    Z
    2    2    4    3        6    --

    2243                =  6

    2243               (is) ME

What does that mean?

Let me suggest once again that 2243 is a date . . . of birth.

    2243 = January 22, 1943

I. e., the 22nd day of 43.

And whose birthday might that be?


Dante's Inferno 67:31

Incidentally, I havent mentioned Dants Inferno in a while now, but theres
an interesting equation you can create with some chapter and verse.

In Canto 31, we reach the Ninth Circle of Hell, and meet Nimrod, who is mired
there for attempting to storm Heaven.  Part of his punishment, since he created
the Tower of Babel, is to speak a language that no one understands.  Prompted
by the poets appearance in his lowly domain, Nimrod speaks one line of
gibberish (kind of like the last 18 letters of The Cryptogram, or The 340-
Character Cipher) that is untranslatable:

    Raphel mai amech zami almi

Thats line 67 of Canto 31.
Of all the lines in Dants Inferno, this one is closest to being a cipher!

I find it interesting that, if you divide the number suggested by that line by
three--the number of heads the devil has and the number of parts The Cryptogram
was divided into--you get the two halves of Michael OHares identity,
separated by a decimal point.

In other words: another crossroads, like the one in Riverside:

    6731 ? 3 =     2243.666

                         2243.666

2243 is, again, a way of saying January 22, 1943.

666 the reader can probably translate for himself.


October 1969 Review

The mailing of The School Bus Threat Letter, the murder of Shelly Holmboe, and
the call to The Oakland Police Department span a ten-day period in October
1969.  This review will focus on ten points, one for each day:


    1. The letter mentions Maple St. to underscore the import ofCherr.

    2. The school bus threat is made partly to keep the case on the front page.

    3. The school bus threat also predicts the killing of a child.

    4. The Shelly Holmboe murder resembled that of Cheri Bates.

    5. Shelly Holmboe was a virgin, and her name contains EASTER.

    6. The call to Oakland PD announces Shelly Holmboe as OPi. e., DOA.

    7. F. Lee Baile is acrostic F-L-B, or 6 = 122, i. e., I (am) 122.

    8. The Channel 7 show was meant to highlight the calls, not the content.

    9. ZODIAC on a rotary phone dial spells out,I (was born) 22/43.

 10. The cipher in Dants Inferno is 6731; ? 3, is 2243.666.


November December 1969

The Pen Card itself is a metaphor for the Zodiac killer's secret writing.

SORRY I HAVEN'T WRITTENmeans, in effect,SORRY I'M NOT SPELLING THINGS OUT FOR
YOU.

BUT I JUST WASHED MY PENmeans that he's cleaned his writing of any obvious
references to his identity, so people will have to find the ones that aren't so
obvious.

He can't do a THING with his pen; instead, he does his THING when he's
committing murders.  His murders are the most visible THING in The SF Bay Area
in November 1969; his letters, on the other hand, are written in invisible ink.

The 340 is yet another example of orchestrating mystery.  It's a long, drawn-
out joke that has a "Yeah, so?" punchline, just like The Cryptogram.  It's not
that the Zodiac killer's ciphers don't contain significant information; they
do.  But the joke is that EVERYTHING he does contains information.  So he gets
the police and public to concentrate on the ciphers, and once they're
distracted by things that either make no sense (The Cryptogram) or are too
dense to solve (The 340), they're too discouraged to try to figure all the
other stuff out.

Other than that, what the Zodiac killer is doing is pretty blatant.  He's
killed 7 people, and he's using alphabet substitution as his code.  His
disguise is that he doesn't look like a typical killer.  He looks entirely
different, not because of anything about his physical appearance, but because
he doesn't fit a preconception of the way a killer should look.  If beauty is
in the eye of the beholder, looking suspicious is in the mind of society and
its various police agencies.

There's a funny New Yorker cartoon which shows several men standing in a room
during the time of the Revolutionary War.  All of the men look like George
Washington, except one who looks like a weasel.  A man comes to the door and
asks, "Which one of you is Benedict Arnold?"


Pen Card

The Pen Card of November 8, 1969, is the Zodiac killers first commercial
greeting card message, the first of three he will send (four, if you count The
Eureka Card of December 1990).  On the cover is a dripping fountain pen with
the accompanying greeting:





The emphasis on Thing is just a reiteration of his alphabet fixation:

     T      H    I     N     G
    20 +  8 + 9 + 14 +  7 = 58

I. e., its the same as ZODIAC.

     Z      O     D     I     A     C
    26 + 15 +  4 +  9 +  1 +  3 = 58

Doing his thing means being the Zodiac.

The point of the reference is to confirm that hes using alphabet numbers.


Misdirection

Beneath the handwritten message inside The Pen Card, five months were listed,
which police and Robert Graysmith assumed meant the months in which the killer
claimed victims:     


                Des July Aug
                Sept Oct = 7

At the time, everyone reading the card knew who the Zodiac killed in December
(Faraday and Jensen), July (Ferrin), September (Shepard), and October (Stine),
but what TWO victims did he kill in August, so that the victim count adds up to
7?

The answer is . . . he didn't kill ANYONE in August!

Youre only looking for two victims in August if you think the "months" are
there to represent when victims were killed.  They're not!

Besides, readers of this book know that there were two additional victims in
October:

  December: Faraday and Jensen
            July: Ferrin
September: Shepard
     October: Bates, Stine, and Holmboe

NOW let's add up the victims:

Bates + Faraday + Jensen + Ferrin + Shepard + Stine + Holmboe = 7

The listed months are a prime example of the Zodiac killers strategy, which
is misdirection.

The cleverest sleight-of-hand artist is the one who keeps his hands in plain
view at all times, and yet fools us completely, because he gets our eyes to go
in the wrong direction while the real action takes place elsewhere.

Throughout the Zodiac coverage on TV, people like Robert Graysmith and the late
Paul Avery have pointed to the Zodiac killers scoreboards, the lines at the
bottom of some of his letters which indicate how many victims hes claiming,
often presented as a score with The San Francisco Police Department (SFPD)
assigned the number zero.

The Zodiac killer seems to claim 7 victims (November 8, 1969), 10 (April 20,
1970), 12 (June 26, 1970), 13 (July 25, 1970), 17+ (March 13, 1971), and
finally 37 (January 29, 1974).

However, at no time does the Zodiac killer actually SAY that the numbers at the
bottom represent how many victims hes killed.

The Zodiac killer only explicitly claims a specific number of victims in three
letters: 7 (November 9, 1969), 8 (December 20, 1969), and 10 (April 20, 1970).

The misdirection lies in the Zodiac killer's allowing us to believe that the
numbers are victim counts, when he is usually talking about something else.


Months

Lets look at the months as they are written in The Pen Card, and see if they
might instead stand for something else.

                Des July Aug
                Sept Oct = 7

If youve been following my approach so far, you know that my knee-jerk
reaction to deciphering anything Zodiac is to assign alphabet values to
letters.  So lets do that!

     D      E     S                   J      U     L      Y                 
A     U    G
     4  +  5  + 19 = 28        10 + 21 + 12 + 25 = 68          1 + 21 + 7 = 29
    

    S     E    P      T                 O    C     T
   19 + 5 + 16 + 20 = 60       15 + 3 + 20 =  38

Now lets add up the numbers!

DES       28
JULY     68
AUG      29
SEPT    60
OCT   +38
           223

The Zodiac killer uses the abbreviated "months" to highlight one of the main
themes of his murder project (2-23)--but no one sees it because theyre sure it
means something else.

By the way, note the misspelling of the abbreviation for December.  He
abbreviates December DES so that the letters will add up to 223.  This is the
real reason his letters contain misspellings and bad grammar.  Not because hes
stupid--hes anything but.  But because these mistakes allow him to form an
undertext.


223 = 7

                Des July Aug
                Sept Oct = 7

DES       28
JULY     68
AUG      29
SEPT    60
OCT   +38
           223

But wait, you say.
The equation hes created doesnt add up!

    223 = 7

Sure, it's seven victims, but 223 doesn't equal 7.  That doesnt make sense,
does it?

Sure it does.  Remember the Zodiac killers fundamental principle of symmetry.
Everything he says has to be right in at least two different ways.

    223 = 7

Add up the numerals on the left and see if they equal the one on the right.



340



Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** TZMS 1993-1 ******

I'm posting the 1993 edition of The Zodiac Murders--Solved! first because it's
the best of the physical editions of the book.  The book was 500 pages long if
you include the illustrations; that's a little too much data to post on a
single website page, so this section contains the 17-page intro section and 233
pages of the text.  TZMS 1993-2 will contain pages 234-482.  

TZMS was only the third book writen about the Zodiac case, after Graysmith's
Zodiac (1986) and Penn's Times 17 (1987).  You can see a copy of the book in
the foreground of this shot of Harry Martin's dining room table, among other
Zodiac material.  That's Graysmith's Zodiac paperback way over on the right,
with a Gareth Penn letter just above it.  My own pamphlet, The Zodiac Killer
Lives!--In Brookline  is just to the right of TZMS 1993, and a third Ray Grant
book, The Zodiac Murders: Proof & Probability is on the far left.  Don't ask me
when the photo was taken; I took the trouble of downloading it from ZKF, since
Mike Butterfield had already stolen it from Zodiac Zee.


I don't know how much of this book was scanned and posted by Bently on Zodiac
Zee in 2009/2010, but here is the entire manuscript:







































Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** TZMS 1993-2 ******


That is, again, the 1993 edition of TZMS I'm holding in this picture from
2010.  Harry Martin of The Napa Sentinel had a copy, which was eventually
bought by Bently and scanned onto Zodiac Zee circa late 2009.  Mike Martin, who
I gather is no relation to Harry, ended up with that copy.  I sent something
like 20 copies to the faculty and administration of Cal-Berkeley in 1993.

I haven't heard back from them so far.

This webpage contains pages 234-482 of the book.  Those of you who were around
for the first posting of this material a couple days ago saw the entire book on
one page before the program froze and then crashed.  Even if the page had
survived, there were scrolling issues with 500 pages that aren't as severe with
the book divided in two.  As I said, I may eventually post a commentary on this
edition when I have the time to reread it.




































Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** TZMS 1994 ******

After writing three editions of my book in 1990, another in 1991, and another
in 1993, I decided in 1994 to write a shorter (1993 = 380 pages, 1994 = 218
pages), more streamlined, and MUCH less cryptographic edition in 1994.

This is a book I wrote 18 1/2 years ago and, because I took the cryptography
out, it isn't that much different from the website edition except for making
fewer points, and not having as interesting a presentation.  I was surprised to
see that I still thought that the NYC Zodiac might be the same as the SF Zodiac
in 1994; I knew I suggested that in the 1990 editions, but thought I'd dropped
it by 1994.  Again, as I've said many times, my theory hasn't changed in the
past 22 years, except for the addition of Hugh Penn as a conspirator between
the 1991 and 1993 books, but I've felt differently about some of the details. 
I still think the 1993 edition is the best of the bound books, and contains by
far the most information.

Notes on the 1994 edition:

Page ii: the money-back guarantee. My books were never for sale, and when
people requested a copy, I just sent them one free of charge. I obviously
considered the possibility of selling them at some point to recoup some of the
money printing them was costing me, but it never actually came to that.

Page 5: Im surprised I took the Isobel Watson attack so seriously by 1994;
again, I know I wrote about it in 1990 but didnt expect it to be in the 1994
edition.

Page 25: I think OHare was actually teaching at The Goldman School by the fall
of 1991, and he specifies 1991 in his Washington Monthly article (without
somehow mentioning my own role in his abrupt career move).

Page 29: Going by the dates of the Zodiacs follow-up letter (November 9, 1969)
and Donald Foukes scratch (which I believe was written either on the 12th or
13th), Fouke didnt realize it was the Zodiac he talked to until a month after
the incident, and his writing of the scratch was motivated by a need to deny
the encounter after the Zodiac made it public. Just in case Mike Rodelli is
reading this, let me repeat my contention here that Donald Fouke is A LYING
SACK OF SHIT!

Parenthetically, I just read last night where Mike Rodelli filed some posts on
ZK.com after I officially stopped posting over there on my birthday (April
29th), on the subject of which of William Crows accounts of the Lake Herman
Road incident is more reliable (1968 or 2004). Rodelli is one of the very best
researchers associated with the Zodiac case, but his handling of eyewitness
testimony is a head-scratcher. Mike seems to think that a witness is either
100% right or his testimony should be thrown out; also, that his first account
must always be given greater credence than any follow-up account.

I prefer not to take a hard line with eyewitness accounts, because I believe if
a half-dozen of us Zodiac researchers all witnessed the same incident, we would
each be right about some things and wrong about others. Ive cited David
Belins book about the JFK assassination, where he points out that witnesses in
most murder cases tend to be wrong about some details even if the bulk of their
testimony is accurate; therefore, to reject a witness account just because the
witness was wrong about this or that detail is shortsighted.

I prefer to look at ALL the eyewitness accounts and then try to reconstruct
what happened as if I were putting a puzzle together, using some pieces which
fit the overall picture, and rejecting what doesnt fit. Rodelli likes William
Crows 1968 account, as given in the police report, because that account more
closely fits Rodellis preconception of who the assailant was. The problem with
the 1968 account is that it has the incident happening between 9:30pm and 10pm;
two witnesses have the light-colored Impala already parked in the turnout by
that time (Frank Gasser at 9pm, and Bingo Wesher at 10pm). Mind you, I believe
the incident took place, but Crow has to be wrong about the timeit more likely
happened prior to 9pm, before the other witnesses showed up.

Page 43: The Zodiac more likely used a .22 handgun on Lake Herman Road, since
it would have been easier to wield in tight quarters and could accept a
flashlight attachment.  I was schooled by Smithy on this point, so for once I'm
not expecting any flak from ZKF about it.

Page 65: The detective was actually the late, not great Fred Shirasago, who
was at a bar when I talked to him. I called his office, and they had me call
his favorite bar (shades of Paul Avery in the Fincher movie).  Michael O'Hare
praises Freddie in his Washington Monthly article, which all by itself should
make O'Hare a Zodiac suspect.

Page 83: Maggie Koerth-Baker of Boing Boing recently regurgitated (in June of
this year) the oft-repeated myth that Michael OHare wasnt even in California
during the Zodiac period. Guess again. OHare has never denied working there
during that time, and in fact admits it in the Boston Herald piece.
Additionally, ADL was acutely aware of the connection between Forest Pines and
the Zodiac case, since the police immediately contacted them when they got the
card. Captain Roy Conway of Vallejo PD told me twenty years ago that every
police agency with a Zodiac case was ALL OVER the condo link, and looked for
Donna Lasss body where the punched hole on the card seemed to be. The idea
that the connection between the mailing and the condo project is this
farfetched theory is just hilarious; the police thought of it almost two
decades before I did.

Page 85: We obviously are NOT to believe The Confession Letter; Cheri Bates
never made it to The RCC Library that night.

Page 88: The reason OHare was not chased from Cal-Berkeley by the arrival of
my book, as he had been from Harvard, was that hed had time to prepare his
colleagues for it in advance. Whereas the book mailing in Cambridge caught him
with his pants down.

Page 89: The Ted Bundy kidnapping trial, which was the first charge he was
brought up on; Ted opted for trial by judge, since hed gotten too much
publicity pre-trial to risk a jury of his peers.

Pages 136-137: To be clear, 117? 23 W/33? 58 N are the coordinates of
Riverside City College, not specifically of the murder location. The Zodiac
uses his geodesic locators to indicate general areas in which his murders will
take place: Lake Herman Road, Blue Rock Springs Park, Portsmouth Square Park.
As Mike Butterfield himself has admitted, if you allow for the north leg of The
Mt. Diablo Radian to pass through BRSP, and not the specific location of
Darlene Ferrins murder, the murders ARE connected by the radian (if about 1
degree off, on average, for the various specific sites).

Page 158-159: I was surprised to see that Gareth Penn actually mentions the two
23s in The Progressive Architecture article in a letter to the FBI from the
early 1980s, recently linked on ZK.com. Of course, he doesnt mention The
Terminus.

Page 187-188: Gareth Penn gives July 25, 1969 as the postmark of The Cryptogram
cover letters, so I took his word for it in 1994. It wasnt until I saw the
envelopes online that I realized they were postmarked July 31, 1969. Having
said that, I still think the 666/999 insight is the reason he intentionally
misreported the postmark in Times 17.  Yet another example of Gareth Penn
getting a fact wrong that he could only have missed on purpose.

Page 211: I no longer believe Michael OHare had anything to do with the NYC
Zodiac murders, but in 1994 I considered it a strong possibility. In my defense
Ill point out that serial killers, however sophisticated they may be, tend not
to stop killing until theyre stopped by law enforcement.



































































































































































































































































































































































































































































Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** Vallejo ******

Most readers will object to the theory behind this book because they believe no
one, and not even a group of people, could plan something so complicated in
such detail so many years in advance.  Thats why I ask the reader to put any
doubts he has on HOLD.

When he refuses to do that, the reader believes hes being skeptical.

But hes not being skeptical at allhes actually being gullible!

Lets assume, for a moment, that the reader accompanies me on an evening out,
and we go to see a magician saw his assistant in half, and then wave his magic
wand, and somehow put her back together again (as otherwise she'd be beside
herself).  At the end of the evening, the audience applauds the magician.

But did any of us actually think that he'd taken his assistant apart and put
her back together again?  Of course not!  Instead, we were entertained by THE
ILLUSION the magician created.

The same is true of the Zodiac killer.  I dont think he did anything
supernatural.  Instead, he and his fellow conspirators sought out what he was
looking for in advance, and then chose among various options available to him,
and used a flexible schedule (and, for that matter, a language with lots of
flexibility) to give the appearance of doing the impossible.
 
I mention this now because what happened in Riverside was relatively statica
missing co-ed, a body discovered the morning after, a disabled car, various
artifacts left behind at the scene of the crime--plus the killer himself is
invisible, despite all the potential witnesses that Sunday.

In contrast, in Vallejo, both killer and victims are figures on a shifting
landscape.

At Lake Herman Road he's a passing shadow, barely detectable as an oddly parked
car from earlier in the evening, or the second car in a turnout on a dark road
that a passing motorist's headlights illuminate for just a moment.

At Blue Rock Springs, a surviving victim recalls a mysterious driver lurking,
and then suddenly pulling up behind the couple, walking to the passenger side
and opening fire, and then just as abruptly getting back in his car and driving
away.
 
How could the Zodiac killer possibly have chosen his victims ahead of time and
then placed them, when the circumstances seem to suggest otherwise?

I dont pretend to know the specifics of his tricks.

But the evidence suggests he was able, somehow, to pull it off.

They say Fortune Favors The Prepared Mind . . . and what he did wasnt magic.


Vallejo Facts

1. On Friday night, December 20, 1968, David Faraday, 17, and Betty Lou Jensen,
16, were shot to death with a .22 rifle in a lovers lane on Lake Herman Road in
Vallejo, California.  There were no eyewitnesses; their bodies were discovered
by a passing motorist.

2.  The gunman apparently herded the couple out the passenger side of the car
by firing bullets into the right rear window and the left rear wheel well.  The
couple scrambled out the passenger side, where they were shot dead by the
gunman coming around behind them.

3. The killer shot David Faraday point blank in the left temple, then put five
shots in Betty Lous upper chest.  This was remarkable marksmanship,
considering he was pursuing her on gravel and the area was pitch dark that time
of night.

4. On the night of July 4-5, 1969, Darlene Ferrin, 22, and a companion, Michael
Mageau, 19, were the victims of another lovers lane shooting, this time in a
clearing near a grove of trees in Blue Rock Springs Park, less than a mile from
the Lake Herman Road murder scene.  This time the weapon was a .9mm Luger. 
Darlene, the driver, was mortally wounded, but Michael ultimately recovered and
was able to describe his attacker to a police artist.

5. Michael Mageau described Darlenes car being herded into the area by a
motorist who tailgated her until her own Corvair stalled against a fallen log. 
When the other driver got out, he shone a flashlight in at them.  Assuming it
was the police, they reached for their wallets.  The man approached from the
passenger side and began firing in through the window.

6. At 12:40AM, the killer made a phone call to The Vallejo Police Department. 
 I want to report a double murder.  If you will go one mile east on the
Columbus Parkway to the public park, you will find kids in a brown car.  They
were shot with a 9-millimeter Luger.  I also killed those kids last year. 
Goodbye.  The final word was delivered in a taunting tone.

7. For all his nerve, the killer was startled when the pay phone began ringing
as soon as he hung up.  This drew the attention of a black man who happened to
be passing the lit phone booth.  The killer lifted the receiver and let it hang
to stop it from ringing before exiting the booth.

8. Beginning at 1:30AM, three members of Darlenes family--her husband, his
parents, and his brother--all received odd calls in which only the sound of
breathing could be heard, even though there had been no radio or TV news on the
murder as yet.


Vallejo Drivers

Ive already discussed the north leg of the Zodiac killers radian, which runs
through both Vallejo crime scenes.



Since weve looked at the geometry of the crimes, lets now consider the human
element.

Im about to make what the reader may think is a ridiculous observation.  In
fact, what Im going to say will sound so preposterous, the reader may be
tempted to abandon all hope and say to Hell with it!

But here goes:  The significant victims in Vallejo were David Faraday and
Darlene Ferrin.

Its not that the Zodiac wasnt trying to kill Betty Lou Jensen and Michael
Mageau; obviously, he was.  In fact, his failure to kill Michael Mageau may
very well have cost Robert Salem his life.
But the victims who really mattered were the DRIVERS of the two cars.

Why?  Let me answer that question by asking another one:

Does the reader notice anything odd about the names of the two drivers?

    David    Faraday
    Darlene Ferrin

Thats correct.  The drivers of the two cars had the same initials.
Yes, I know it sounds absurd, but suspend your disbelief.
Both drivers were DFs.

    D    F
    4     6    (alphabet numbers)

Obviously, the number 46 is 2 x 23.  If you were trying to make the point that
2 x 23 was a basic theme of your murder puzzle, whom would you choose to kill? 
You might want to choose two victims with the initials DF, featured in mirror-
image crimes.

If you think this sounds much too simple, youre right.
There is more going on here than meets the eye.


Ferrin Phone Calls

Lets begin with something that should be obvious to everyone.  In fact, its
so obvious that Robert Graysmith actually notices it, and his character in the
movie mentions it to the Dave Toschi character (I say the characters mention it
because the movie is highly fictionalized).

Someone makes three phone calls, beginning at 1:30am on July 5, 1969:

    1, to Dean Ferrin;

    2, to Deans parents; and

    3, to Deans brother.

The caller says nothing in any of the phone calls, but his breathing can be
heard.  The calls, made barely 90 minutes following the murder, cannot be the
result of news accounts of the homicide, since news of the incident had not hit
the airwaves as yet.

It is reasonable to assume the Zodiac made all three calls, particularly since
he was in the habit of making phone calls following his murders.

Note that all three calls were made to people named FERRIN.  No one called
Darlenes mother, who also lived in the area, even though she was a relative of
the victim.  Darlenes mother wasnt called because her last name wasnt
FERRIN.

The Zodiac killer calls to demonstrate that he knew who the victim was.  That
much is evident just from the fact of the phone calls.  Its also why he shines
a flashlight at the victims in Blue Rock Springs Park, something he probably
also did in the earlier episode on Lake Herman Road.  The flashlight serves the
dual purpose of freezing the victims (because they assume its the police, and
technically theyre trespassing) and visually confirming their identities.

But the three phone calls to people named FERRIN also suggests something else,
something much more sinister.  The Zodiac killer is telling us her name is
significant.  Her name is why she was chosen as a victim.



Mirror Images

Im getting ahead of myself here, but lets look at The Cryptogram cover
letters and the August 4, 1969 letter, which is the first time the killer says,
 This is the Zodiac speaking . . .

In The Cryptogram cover letters, he cites the Vallejo crime details
chronologicallyDecember 20th, then July 4th.  On August 4th , he cites them
backward (July 4th, THEN December 20th).  He does this to underscore that the
Vallejo crimes are mirror-images of each other (except, of course, for all
those Winchester Western slugs littering the Blue Rock Springs Park crime
scene.  The Vallejo crime scenes have to be paired in the context of The Zodiac
Project, because they both lie along the north leg of the radian.

In more than 40 years, no one has commented on the Zodiac killers switching
the order of the crimes in consecutive letters, but he does it to make a
point.  Lake Herman Road and Blue Rock Springs are essentially the same crime.



Alphabetical Order

Again, I have to cite some examples out of their chronological order here, but
this is probably the best place to make this point.  If you make the same
assumption Im makingthat David Faraday and Darlene Ferrin were the Zodiac
killer's real intended victims in Vallejo, not Betty Lou Jensen and/or
Michael Mageau, who were literally just along for the ridethen something else
falls into place.  He was attacking his public victims in alphabetical order:


    Bates, Cheri (10-30-66)

    Faraday, David (12-20-68)

    Ferrin, Darlene (7-4-69)

    Hartnell, Bryan (9-27-69)

    Stine, Paul (10-11-69)


This is yet another way of saying that the alphabet is important.



Finished Products

We talked about Dants Inferno earlier.  The Inferno begins on the night of
Holy Thursday, April 7, 1300 . . . but Dante actually enters Hell on Good
Friday, and comes back up out of Hell on the morning of Easter Sunday.

    Good Friday . . . Easter Sunday.

Could it be that the Zodiac killer is illustrating this journey in his own
travels?  After all, the Zodiac murders all occur on what we in the modern
world think of as a weekend--Friday, Saturday, and Sunday--which corresponds to
the time Dante spends in Hell.

Would it be fair to say Easter is the finished product of Dants Inferno?

And would it be fair to say that the victims--in this case, David Faraday and
Darlene Ferrin--are the finished products of The Zodiac Project?  If the Zodiac
killer wanted to make that point, how might he do it?


Hidden Messages

If you think the DFs  are a coincidence, note that the names of both drivers
contain the same religious holiday in Morse/binary (actually just redivided
Morse, since no numbers are used):

    D    A     V     I    D      F    A    R   A    D   A    Y
    100 01 0001 00 100 0010 01 010 01 100 01 1011

        0 01 000 1  0 010
        E A   S    T E   R


  D    A    R    L    E  N E      F    E   R    R    I    N
100 01 010 0100 0 10 0    0010 0 010 010 00 10

                                        0  01 000 1  0 010
                                        E  A    S   T E   R

Remember, the Zodiac killer must have chosen Cheri Bates ahead of time--thats
why he disabled her car.  I think it equally clear that he chose David and
Darlene in advance, and the evidence for that is hidden inside their names.

As I said in the previous section, Easter is the finished product of Dants
Infernoits Easter Sunday morning when Dante comes up out of Hell.  And the
Easter-victimsDavid Faraday and Darlene Ferrinare finished products of the
Zodiac murders.

He chose them to make that point.



Code Killer

It's important to realize the Zodiac wasn't just sending codes in his letters.

His murders also contained coding, in the names of the victims and where they
were killed.

If this suggests he was selecting his victims in advance and placing them on
the landscape, that's also true, but he was doing something else as well.

David Faraday and Darlene Ferrin, the two drivers in Vallejo, were both EASTER
victims.

As we'll see in a moment, Michael O'Hare has a connection to Easter spelled out
in two personal identifiers, his Date of Birth and Social Security Number.

Who the victims were didn't decide who he was, of course.

Who he was decided who the victims were.


Binary SSN

Even if David Faraday and Darlene Ferrin did die because the word EASTER was
hidden inside their names, that wouldnt necessarily identify Michael OHare as
their killer, would it?

To complete the picture, we need to take a second look at two of Michael
O'Hares identifying numbers, his Social Security Number and his Date Of Birth.

First, his SSN:

    117-32-2128

I decided the most logical way to treat Michaels social security number was as
a single number, consisting of the digits in sequence.  In other words, as:

    117,322,128

In binary math, this converts to the following:

    110111111100011000110010000

And its an amazing coincidence, but Michael OHares SSN begins with the
binary form of the number 223:

    11011111    1100011000110010000
    223

Its almost as if being the Zodiac had been his fate all along!



GOOD 793

The binary form of Michael OHares SSN is

    110111111100011000110010000

Besides starting off with 223--

    11011111   1100011000110010000
    223

--the SSN contains two other interesting expressions in Morse/binary:

    110111111100                  0        1100011001    0000

    110 111 111 100                        1100011001
      G    O   O    D                           793

Lets start with the second expression, 793.  Its another amazing coincidence-
-or maybe not such a coincidence--but 793 just happens to be the total number
of characters contained in the four Zodiac ciphers:

    The Cryptogram (July 31, 1969)                                 408
characters
    The 340 Character Cipher (November 8, 1969)         340 characters
    The 13-Character Cipher (April 20, 1970)                    13 characters
    The 32-Character Cipher (June 26, 1970)                 +32 characters
                                      
                                                   793 characters


GOOD Friday

The binary form of Michael OHares SSN is

    110111111100011000110010000

--which contains two interesting expressions in Morse/binary:

    110111111100            0        1100011001    0000

    110 111 111 100                  1100011001
      G    O   O    D                     793

793 is the total number of cipher characters used by the Zodiac, but GOOD is
still the more significant expression of the two.

What is Michael OHares connection to the EASTER victims?

His social security number begins with GOOD.
And Michael OHare was born on January 22, 1943--a FRIDAY.

Michael OHare is GOOD (Friday).
His victims are EASTER (Sunday).

Together, killer and victims encompass his vision of HELL.



Passengers

At Lake Herman Road, the Zodiac killer herded the teenagers out the PASSENGER
side of the vehicle, and then immediately struck, shooting David Faraday in the
temple and firing five shots into Betty Lou Jensens back.  At Blue Rock
Springs Park, the killer simply walked up to the PASSENGER side and began
firing into the vehicle.

Subsequently, in Presidio Heights, the Zodiac killer will grab the driver from
the back seat, press a gun against his head and fire one bullet through his
skull, after which he will get into the front seat on the PASSENGER side and
pull the victims body onto the PASSENGER seat.

Why this preoccupation with the PASSENGER side of each vehicle?  Volkswagens
current ad campaign points out that, in life, there are drivers and passengers,
and concludes with a statement you might see on a sign in the window of a pizza
joint: DRIVERS WANTED.

Its also true that in death, there are drivers and passengers.  Killers are
the drivers.  Victims are the passengers, particularly if theyre chosen ahead
of time.  So the Zodiac killer is demonstrating that, though the victims may
APPEAR to be self-directed in their movements, they are actually being
positioned by him: positioned in space, positioned in time, positioned as
pieces of the puzzle.

The subsequent murders had more elements of his staging.  He puts on a costume,
forces the victims at Lake Berryessa to tie each other up . . . and then stabs
them and leaves a message on their car.  He has Paul Stine first drive to
Washington & Maple, and then another block to Washington & Cherry . . . and
THEN kills him.

In the solution to The Cryptogram, which Ill be discussing momentarily, the
Zodiac killer says

The best part of it is thae when I die I will be reborn in paradice and all the
I have killed will become my slaves.

What could he mean by that?  How could his victims becomes his slaves after he
dies?

They will become his slaves then because, once he dies, it will become clear
that he chose all his victims in advance.

They will thus become completely subservient to his will, and without lives of
their own to speak of.  He will be the driver; they will be the passengers.



Original Terminator

Oh, I know what youre muttering to yourself, reader.  No one, not even the
brightest serial killer who ever lived, could pick his victims ahead of time BY
NAME, and then kill them at predetermined locations.  It simply cant be done.

Well, at the very least, this idea isn't inconceivable.  The Terminator robot
did it in the original movie.  He materialized in Los Angeles, got a phone
book, looked up the name Sarah Connor, and began showing up at each Sarah
Connors front door and killing her.  Sooner or later, he was going to kill the
real one!

So how did the Zodiac killer locate people with names that fit his design, and
then somehow place them on the landscape?  The locating wouldnt have been that
hard, if you stop to realize that he wasnt looking for specific people.

He was looking for people with names that fit his requirements.

And, if you believe what I believe, that the Zodiac killer was actually four
people, youll notice that one of those people was Hugh Penn.

Hugh Penn, Gareth Penn's father, worked in law enforcement, and was a long-time
employee of the California Highway Patrol.  As such, he had access to whatever
information his department had access to.

Robert Graysmith noticed that the Zodiac killer favored crime venues with
water names (LAKE Herman Road, Blue Rock SPRINGS, etc.).

What no one has noticed, in 40+ years of the Zodiac case, is that all his
victimsthe public ones, anywaywere strongly associated, at the time of their
deaths, to a vehicle:

Cheri Batess VW was tampered with by her killer.

David Faraday and Betty Lou Jensen were herded out of their Rambler.

Darlene Ferrin was shot through the passenger side door of her car.

The Zodiac killer wrote a message on Bryan Hartnells car.

Paul Stine was killed at the wheel of his taxi.

Whether or not he knew THEM, he definitely seemed to know their cars.

How?  If youre a supervisor for the CHP, you know everybodys car and
everybodys drivers licence.  You have their addresses, and you know their
licence plate numbers (plus the make and model of the cars they drive).

But that just gets you their names, home addresses, and vehicles.

It doesnt put them where you need them to be.



Scouting Locations

Before I account for the WHERE, I need to remind the reader that the Zodiac
killer didnt murder specific people.  He murdered individuals whose NAMES
happened to fit his requirements.

In July 1970, he sent The Mikado Letter, in which he admits to having A Little
List of potential victims.  I think its probably more accurate to say he was
keeping some sort of chart, a kind of spreadsheet, which included potential
victims, potential murder locations, and so forth.

It would have required some serious homework, but it wouldn't have been all
that difficult.  If you have access to motor vehicle registrations and drivers
license information, your ability to locate someone at any given time is
greatly enhanced.  Just a little bit of legwork, following up on those leads,
will give you some familiar patterns to work with.

For example, I doubt that Darlene Ferrins presence that evening in Blue Rock
Springs Park was her first-ever trip there.  Im guessing that, like the car-
hop place she drives to first in the movie, it was a regular haunt of hers. 
That might also explain the familiarity she seemed to have with the person
stalking her; shed probably seen that car around before.

It might also explain why the Zodiac killer appeared to prey on younger
victims.  Teenagers and college-age kids are a bit more predictable in their
patterns than adults are; it would have been much easier for the Zodiac killer
to get a fix on a younger person, plus they tend to be a lot more oblivious
to their surroundings than suspicious adults are.

In the 1960s, around the time The Zodiac Project was being planned, there was a
very popular type of puzzle, often found in Readers Digest, where one received
scattered information about a handful of people.  The puzzle itself would
consist of perhaps twenty statements, such as: David drives a Rambler; Darlene
smokes Chesterfields; The Person Who Lives On Via San Jose drives a
Volkswagen.  You had to make a chart to solve it, and it usually took the
better part of an evening to figure it all out (largely by a process of
elimination, since the puzzle would finally ask, "Who drives a Corvair?", or,
"Whose is Cecelia's boy friend?").  In the end, you'd have a complete profile
for each person.

I suspect thats what the Zodiac killer was able to do: he kept track of
various requirements (name, address, car, and so forth), and finally chose
whatever was the best combination (or what was available at a given time).  It
wasn't magic, but when you removed the scaffolding that supported it, something
that was carefully planned was made to seem spontaneous.

Choosing among various elements in a work of art, even when the artwork itself
is open-ended and even interactive with its environment, is part of the
creative process.



Vallejo Review

Lets review what weve learned on our trip to the North Bay Area.

Since there were two crime scenes, Ill make two points with each section.

 
      1a. Both Vallejo drivers had the initials DF.

      1b. The letters D-F stand for 4-6, or 46, which is 2 x 23.

      2a. The Zodiac killer reversed the order of the crime details in
consecutive letters.

      2b. The order is reversed to emphasize that the crimes are mirror-images.

      3a. Easter Sunday is the finished product ofDants Inferno.

      3b. Faraday and Ferrin are finished products of The Zodiac Project.

      4a. The names of both drivers contain the word EASTER in Morse code.

      4b. It is now clear that the Vallejo drivers were chosen well in advance.

      5a. Michael Hars SSN contains GOOD, and he was born on a Friday.

      5b. Michael Hare is GOOD Friday; his victims are EASTER Sunday.

      6a. Preoccupation with the passenger side means his victims were placed.

      6b. The Zodiac killer calls his victims SLAVES to stress they weret
random.



Cryptogram

Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]
















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
****** What's New ******

Just to keep the What's New article reasonably short, I'm going to move its
archive over to ZodiacKillerFactsInfo.com; if you haven't checked in here in a
while, you might want to click over there for the older updates.

Monday, September 3, 2012

I pretty much finished what I'm going to say on Riverside Revisited.  It's
disheartening that so much detail about the Bates murder has been lost since I
downloaded those pages in 2003.

My work on that day and the aftermath of it has been pretty exhaustive. 
William Manchester obviously did more with the four days of the JFK
assassination in The Death of a President, but he wasn't relying as much on
secondary sources as I've had to do.

Sunday, September 2, 2012

I posted what I think is a groundbreaking article on the Cheri Bates autopsy
this morning.  I will shortly be expanding on it with an article entitled
Autopsy Confession, which links the Bates autopsy to The Confession Letter. 
There has been speculation as to whether The Confession Letter was really
written by the killer of Cheri Bates.  If you read the autopsy carefully, it
becomes clear that portions of The Confession Letter were actually written to
"cover up" for what might be found in the autopsy.  The autopsy casts doubt as
to what the killer's motives were; The Confession Letter clouds the issue by
offering an explanation for what the medical examiner found . . . or, to be
exact, DIDN'T find.   

Friday, August 31, 2012

I still can't believe I didn't notice that Bently posted the 1991 edition of
TZMS on Zodiac Zee, not the 1993 edition.  I'm still processing that mistake. 
It's understandable that I assumed I'd sent the Napa Sentinel edition (1993) to
Harry Martin, but I should have taken a closer look at that scanned index
page.  I pulled the box with the 1991 edition off the shelf in my attic and
looked at it briefly.  The 1991 edition was an edited version of the 1990
edition (which was mailed to Harvard); the 1993 edition was completely
rewritten, restructured, and has the most cryptography of all the books.  I'm
hoping that all my fans who have emailed me over the past couple years asking
to see the physical books are reading them now.  I will post the 1990 and 1991
editions sometime between now and the end of the year.  By the way, I was
surprised to see Zodiac Zee still available on The Wayback Machine, though all
you get is the home page.  Apparently Zodiac Zee was the original version of
ZKS, judging by who was moderating it.

I wrote more about the Riverside crime scene on ZKT.  My plan is to put up two
parallel articles, one called What Didn't Happen, which features the true crime
narrative as it's been presented these past 45+ years and explains why it's
wrong, detail by detail; the second article will be called Riverside Timeline,
which will present What I Think Happened.

Thursday, August 30, 2012

Oops!

I don't know why I didn't notice this before.  For the past couple of years,
pretty much since I've been aware of people talking about TZMS on the Internet,
I've assumed that they were talking about the 1993 edition.  That's the edition
that was dedicated (see the copyright page) to Harry Martin (mainly because he
expressed curiosity about it), so I assumed that edition is what Bently had
scanned onto the Zodiac Zee website.

Apparently I was wrong.  I just took a look at the Table of Contents page that
was scanned onto ZKF and OPORD, and it's not from the 1993 edition.



It's from the 1991 edition.  At least, I think it is.  I haven't gone up to my
attic to check the 1991 manuscript yet, but it can't be the 1993 edition
because the Tables of Contents don't match.

I'll have to see if I can find Zodiac Zee on The Wayback Machine (I doubt it),
but it appears that the 1993 edition I just scanned onto the site hasn't been
seen by anyone except the faculty and administration at Cal-Berkeley.

I recall talking to Harry Martin on the phone circa 1993 or so but I don't
remember what the context of the conversation was.  I'm guessing what happened
is that I promised to send him some material, and I had a few extra copies of
the 1991 edition laying around so that's what I sent him.  I then later put
together a new edition and dedicated it to him.

Wednesday, August 29, 2012

I spent much of the day talking to the GoDaddy techs about their new website
builder.  What they told me turned out not to be true, at least from my end,
but I did manage to get TZMS 1993 back up on the site, now split into halves. 
The bad news is that I spent several days loading a 500-page manuscript a page
at a time onto the website; the good news is I figured out, with a little bit
of tech help, how to do it 15 pages at a time, which is a lot less tedious. 
I'll be posting the 1990 and 1991 editions later this year, but probably not
next week.  As I said, the 1993 edition is by far the best of the physical
books.

Tuesday, August 28, 2012

Okay, I give up.  I tried posting TZMS 1993 as a single website page and it
looks like the word processing program crashes if you put too many scans in one
place, so I'll have to break it up.

I wrote a few more paragraphs on ZKT.  The more I look at the Bates murder
scene, the more ridiculous the true crime narrative about it that you find in
all the Zodiac books, on all the Zodiac websites, on all the Zodiac TV shows
and Zodiac message boards becomes.

Hey, don't look at me.  I'm the Morse/binary guy, right?  I just started
looking at the conventional evidence in the past year, and none of it makes
sense.  It's a little ironic when you have people jumping up and down about THE
FACTS, and a lot of THE FACTS turn out to be wrong. 



Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]

















The Zodiac Murders--Solved!
my other website: Zodiac Killer Timeline
you tube videos:Zodiac killer solved
Your Subtitle text
    * Home Page
    * Intro Section
    * Riverside
    * Vallejo
    * Cryptogram
    * Lake Berryessa
    * Presidio Heights
    * Shelly Holmboe
    * 340
    * Johns & Salem
    * 1970 Letters
    * Donna Lass
    * 1974
    * 1980/1981
    * Gareth Penn Letters
    * Gareth Penn Articles
    * TZMS 1993-1
    * TZMS 1993-2
    * TZMS 1994
    * What's New
home page



Hi! And welcome to the website edition of my book about the Zodiac killer!

If you're coming here for the first time, I recommend taking a look at my other
website, Zodiac Killer Timeline, when you get the chance.  That site
concentrates on conventional aspects of the Zodiac murders, and, as such, is a
kind of necessary bridge between the standard True Crime accounts of the Zodiac
events you'll find elsewhere and the cryptographic approach you'll find here. 
ZKT.com is currently under construction, but I hope to have it up and running
soon.

I will be pasting the book onto this site a chapter at a time, as time permits.
This allows me to sidestep the obstacle of actually finishing the book prior to
publishing it! People can come to the site and digest as little or as much of
it as they wish, and then come back a few days later and possibly find more.

This book is meant to be read in sequence. If you try reading it out of
sequence, it won't make sense to you. Trust me. So resist the urge to skip
ahead.  You are being baby-stepped through a relatively complex series of
suppositions and explications, a narrative which is difficult enough to swallow
if you do it in the recommended order.

This book doesn't have a single crucial point to build toward, like a drum
roll. It's an example of Argument By Attrition. So meet that argument halfway
by digesting it in the recommended order. The further into the book you get,
the more this strategy will make sense to you.



Next: INTRO SECTION





Home Page

Content copyright
. Raymond Grant. All rights reserved.

[Web Hosting]

**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Autopsy Confession ******
There's been a fair amount of speculation recently as to the authenticity of
The Confession Letter.  Riverside PD has always believed it was written by
Cheri Bates's killer, mainly because of the reference to the middle wire of the
distributor being pulled out.

I myself believe that The Confession Letter was written by Cheri's killer, but
I think the distributor wire is less significant than the writer's reference to
the knife he used to commit the murder.

Here's the critical passage from The Confession Letter:

I PLUNGED THE KNIFE INTO HER AND IT
BROKE.  I THEN FINISHED THE JOB BY CUTTING HER THROAT.

Since we've just looked at the autopsy in detail, here's the obvious question:

Is there evidence anywhere in that autopsy that the killer broke his knife off
into the victim?

If there is, maybe the reader can point it out to me.  I didn't see it, and I
literally retyped the entire autopsy report.

When a medical examiner finds a wound on a body, he normally probes that wound,
either with an instrument or with the tips of his fingers.  This is done even
when the autopsy being performed is that of a dead President, as happened at
Bethesda Naval Hospital in November 1963.  Once the surface of the body is
examined, the autopsy surgeon then opens up the torso to examine the internal
organs, as we saw in the Cheri Bates autopsy report.

No broken-off blade from the killer's knife was noted anywhere on or in her
body.

However, it's possible that the broken-off blade fell back out of the body,
isn't it?

The dirt in a radius of 12 feet around the body was hand sifted to a depth of
three inches, but the search uncovered only two coins and other small debris.

Another way of saying this is that no broken-off blade was found by the autopsy
surgeon, and no broken-off blade was found by any of the crime scene
technicians.

I suppose it's possible that the killer inadvertently kicked the broken-off
blade after it fell out of the victim's body, or that the broken-off blade
ricocheted out of her body so violently that it fell to earth outside that 12-
foot radius . . . but if that's true, then the writer of The Confession Letter
killed the victim after all, right?

I PLUNGED THE KNIFE INTO HER AND IT
BROKE.  I THEN FINISHED THE JOB BY CUTTING HER THROAT.

If the writer of The Confession Letter was telling the truth, there should have
been some evidence of his knife having broken when he stabbed the victim . . .
and there wasn't.  There was a single laceration of the 5th rib, a bone which
might be hard enough to break the knife, but no fracture of the rib and no sign
of the broken blade.

So why would he say that the knife broke?

The autopsy, taken at face value, tells us that the killer never stabbed the
victim.  The wounds to the face are incidental to the throat slashes, the
wounds to the fingers are defensive, and the wounds to the throat are mortal.

That leaves the wounds to the torso, all of which were superficial, none of
which was remotely life-threatening.

It's a knife attack, a crime of rage, in which the victim was never stabbed.

Cheri Bates was murdered 45+ years ago, and yet, no one has questioned her
killer's method.

The reason for that may be found in that single sentence:

I PLUNGED THE KNIFE INTO HER AND IT BROKE.

If there's one thing the killer DIDN'T do, it's plunge his knife into the
victim.

But SAYING that he did has distracted people from looking at what actually
happened.

Note that the killer writes that the knife broke, and THEN he cut her throat:

I PLUNGED THE KNIFE INTO HER AND IT
BROKE.  I THEN FINISHED THE JOB BY CUTTING HER THROAT.

In other words, he was prevented from stabbing the victim because his knife
broke, so his only alternative was to cut the victim's throat ear-to-ear with a
more shallow stroke of his broken blade.

Again, there's no physical evidence that the killer's knife broke.  In
addition, it's hard to imagine how a killer caught up in his own rage, stabbing
a victim in a pitch dark alley, could be aware that his knife had broken. 
There were only a handful of slashes to the torso, and the cuts on the hands
and face were collateral, so how could the killer have known, in total
darkness, that his knife blade had broken?  And how could he act so quickly to
suddenly concentrate on the throat area?

I PLUNGED THE KNIFE INTO HER AND IT
BROKE.  I THEN FINISHED THE JOB BY CUTTING HER THROAT.

Those two sentences betray the killer's nervousness a month after the murder.

The Cheri Bates murder wasn't a crime of passion.

The killer INTENDED to cut her throat, nearly decapitating her.

But he had to make it look like a "normal" murder, and he'd only managed to
nick her torso here and there before the slashes that ended her life.

So he wrote The Confession Letter to make the murder sound as brutal and messy
as possible.

The murder wasn't brutal and messy; it was clinical, if not surgical, in its
precision.

The Confession Letter was definitely written by Cheri Bates's killer.  Only the
killer would be aware of the unspoken message evident in the autopsy.  Only the
killer would be motivated to massage that message so the public got the wrong
idea.



 




Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]














**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Bates Autopsy ******
I took another look at the Cheri Bates autopsy while I was writing about the
Riverside crime scene, and I decided to make a separate article concentrating
on the autopsy itself. Ill put all these articles in some sort of recognizable
order soon. In the meantime, Ive already pointed out the incongruity of the
victims stomach contents, when one considers when she ate supper (prior to
5pm) and when she was likely murdered (about 10:30pm). No 18-year-old
cheerleader is going to eat a normal supper and still have 4 ounces of that
supper still in her stomach 5 ? hours later, unless something extremely intense
happened to her to slow down her digestion in the meantime. If one assumes, as
almost all Zodiac researchers do, that Cheri Bates was accosted and murdered
very suddenly and unexpectedly, she should not have had ANY of the supper shed
eaten more than 5 hours earlier still in her stomach. Her digestive process
could only have been slowed that dramatically if she was in fear of her life
for a protracted period that evening.

I cant speak for everyone, but I find the autopsy pages as posted on the
Internet rather difficult to read, so I went to the trouble of retyping them
below. Much of whats in the autopsy report and related documents are written
in Coroner-Speak, and despite my vast vocabulary, I didnt recognize some of
the terms the attending physician used, so if I misspelled unfamiliar words I
was trying to copy, Im sorry.

I will present the autopsy documents in bold face and comment on them as
needed.

All notes were made by F. Rene Modglin, M. D. (1920-1990)

BIO-LABORATORIES
Colton, California

BATES, Cheri Jo RC-856-66

CHRONOLOGY:

31 October 1966:

0715: Called at home by Chief Deputy Coroner William J. Dykes about the
possibility of a homicide.

0830: Called at office by Chief Deputy Coroner William J. Dykes to proceed to
3680 Terracina Street, Riverside, California

0903: Arrived at scene. Body in capris, white sandals without socks or hose and
loose pink moderately heavy blouse. Laying mainly face down.

0924: Body examined at site; skin surface cool, rigor present in all
extremities but more so in lower than superior members.

0931: Liver temperature 26? and 28? C.

1050: I helped remove clothes.

1100: Autopsy started and several hairs removed from the base of the right
thumb and placed in a 4 x 1 ? inch clear plastic container held by Detective
Earl T. Brown. I removed blood from the heart. Subsequently placed in the lab
refrigerator.

1342: Autopsy completed

1 November 1966: Vaginal swab washing sediment smears made: no spermatozoa
identified.

2 November 1966: Blood typed AB; Rh. (D) positive.

3 November 1966: Tests for barbiturates, narcotics and ethanol negative.

9 November 1966: Preliminary report filed with Riverside County District
Attornes office.

Nail scrapings, hairs from base of the right thumb andvagina smears given
to L. L. Mitchell at 0830.

There are two interesting tidbits about F. Rene Modglin, M. D..

The first is his court-ordered 1987 autopsy of Liberace, which determined that
the entertainer had died of AIDS.

The second, of greater interest to us here, is that the medical examiner was a
7th Day Adventist. I have already pointed out that two Zodiac victims, Bryan
Hartnell and Cecelia Ann Shepard, were 7th Day Adventists.

The founder of the 7th Day Adventist Church was a man named Joseph Bates. Both
Cheri JOSEPHine BATES and her father, JOSEPH BATES (who was specifically
written to at his home address by the Zodiac), had names which contained that
of the 7th Day Adventist founder.

Could Cheri Batess killer possibly have known that, in addition to having a
name that contained the name of the sect's founder, shed also be AUTOPSIED by
a 7th Day Adventist? Oddly enough, yes.


The city of Loma Linda is just northwest of Riverside, less than a 30-minute
drive, and its population has a high percentage of 7th Day Adventists; so much
so that, until 2011, The U. S. Postal Service made its weekend deliveries there
on Sunday instead of Saturday, which is the 7th Day Adventist sabbath. Since
Loma Linda is also the home of a 7th Day Adventist medical school, it would not
have taken much research on the killers part to trace the county's medical
examiner, who was a member of the school's faculty, back to it.

AUTOPSY PROTOCOL: RC-856-66

Name: BATES, Cheri Jo/18-female-Caucasian-American
Time of Death: Found 31 October 1966
Place of Death: Found 3680 Terracina Street, Riverside, California
Time of Autopsy: 31 October 1966
Place of Autopsy: Acheson and Graham Mortuary, Arlington, California
Autopsy Surgeon: F. Rene Modglin, M. D.
Source: Riverside County Coroner, Deputy Reilly, No. 21183
Witnesses: Detective Gerald H. Dunn and Detective Earl T. Brown (Riverside
Police Department); Investigator Jim Lasselgas, (Riverside County District
Attornes Office); Michael J. Reilly (Riverside County Corones Office); and
Mr. Scotty Hill embalmer of Acheson and Graham Mortuary.

It sounds here as if the Acheson & Graham Mortuary were located in another city
(Arlington, California), but it was actually down the street and around the
corner from Cheri Batess house on Via San Jose, much closer than RCC was.

HISTORY OF DEATH:
According to Deputy Coroner Michael Reilly the subject was found dead in the
driveway area of the back yard of an old residence being used as part of the
college library.

EXTERNAL EXAMINATION:
The   (1 measured) about 110 pound unembalmed body is that of a teenage
female with green eyes and brown scalp hair.

The numbering of the items is one off for some reason. The EXTERNAL EXAMINATION
deals with the surface of the skin; the INTERNAL EXAMINATION deals with the
internal organs.

1.
2. a 2 cm oblique ragged edge fresh non gapping laceration of the upper lip on
the left side that angles laterally from above and extends completely through
the thickness of the lip. The teeth behind are not loose or broken. (see figure
1)
3. a dark blue-gray slightly swollen discoloration of mainly the mucocutaneous
portions of the upper and lower lips of the right side involving a 2 cm
greatest diameter. (see figure 1)
4. numerous petechiae in the skin of the forehead.
5. anin lin series of three fresh lacerations of the skin of the left cheek
angling from above in front slightly downward and posteriorly. The anterior is
2 cm long, the intermediate 0.5 cm long and the posterior one 2 cm long. The
overall length is about 3 cm and all extend into the superficial subcutaneous
tissue but do not gape. (see figure 2)
6. an area of dark blue-gray discoloration of the skin of the left cheek and
chin involving mainly the anterior two of the lacerations just mentioned. It is
alsocriss-crosse by a few fine linear abrasions. (see figure 1)
7. the midline chin skin dark blue-gray over a 3 cm greatest diameter and
criss-crosse by several fine line like abrasions. (see figure 1)
8. the anterior neck skin extensively and irregularly lacerated with marked
gapping (see figure 3) A deep cut is in the thyroid cartilage on both sides and
the right common carotid is completely transected as well as the right
superficial jugular vein.
9. a gapping about 1.5 cm oblique fresh laceration in the skin of the right
anterior axillary fold centered 5 cm from the apex produced by the anterior
axillary fold and the right arm. (see figure 7) It is probed into the
subcutaneous tissue about 1 cm.
10. a 1.4 cm fresh vertical gapping sharp edge laceration in the upper medial
quadrant of the left breast in the second ICS. (see figure 4)

[page 2]

BATES, Cheri Jo RC-836-66

EXTERNAL EXAMINATION, CONTINUED:

11. a 1.9 cm gapping sharp edge fresh laceration of the lower medial quadrant
of the right breast in the 3rd lower space. (see figure 4)
12. a 1.7 cm mainly transverse fresh laceration of the skin of the left chest
over the 5th rib and centered about 2 cm medial to the left vertical nipple
line. (see figure 4)
13. a 4 cm gaping fresh sharp edge mainly horizontal laceration of the right
upper arm anterior and medially that extends through the fat and into the
muscle. (see figure 4)
14. a 1.3 cm greatest diameter fresh abrasion with dark blue discoloration of
the skin at the base of the dorsum of the right thumb. (see figure 6)
15. a few light linearcriss-crossin abrasions of the skin of the dorsum of
the right hand involving mainly the medial half over the metacarpals. (see
figure 6)
16. two abrasions, each about 1 cm in greatest diameter, in the skin at the
base of the dorsum of the right middle finger. (see figure 6)
17. a 2-3 mm fresh abrasion of the skin of the dorsum of the middle of the
right 4th finger. (see figue 4)
18. considerable partially dried blood over the hand and especially about the
fingers and under the unpainted moderately long (2 3 mm) but not carefully
manicured fingernails.
19. two fresh 3-5 mm greatest diameter abrasions in the skin over the 2nd IP
joint of the lateral aspect of the right index finger. (see figure 11)
20. an irregular 1.3 cm greatest diameter recent abrasion of the skin over the
2nd IP joint of the medial aspect of the right little finger. (see figure 11)
21. a more or less AP interrupted fine abrasion type laceration in the skin of
the base of the medial aspect of the right little finger. (see finger X) 10 F m
23
22. a curved and interrupted moderately deep laceration (2 cm overall) in the
skin of the base of the lateral aspect of the right index finger. (see figure
11)
23. two somewhat abraded fresh lacerations of the skin of the volar surface of
the left forearm more or less in the mid portion. They run from lateral to
medial the longer is 4 cm and the shorter is 3.5 cm and more lateral than the
former. These extend into the subcutaneous tissue. (see figure 9)
24. a more or less Y shape laceration in the skin of the dorsum of the left
hand medially and at the junction of the wrist and hand. (see figure 8)
25. an irregular laceration of the skin of the dorsum of the left hand in line
with the middle finger and is about the mid area. (see figure 9)
26. a 1.3 cm laceration in the skin of the back of the left side that is fresh,
has sharp edges and gaps. It is horizontally orientated and its medial end is
about 2 cm lateral to the midline and opposite the spinous process of T7. (see
figure 12)

Ive already pointed this out in my Riverside Revisited article, but with the
exception of the gashes to the throat, none of the cuts on the surface of
Cheris skin is longer than 4 cm, which is to say, roughly 1.5 inches. 
Ordinarily this would not surprise us, since we'd assume that the surface cuts
were mostly caused by deeper thrusts of a half-inch blade.  But the killer
didn't thrust his blade INTO the victim's torso; instead, he created shallow,
superficial wounds by slashing the skin.  It's more accurate to say, despite
initial appearances, that the killer did what he could to avoid significant
injury to the victim . . . except for clearly intending to cut her head off. 

INTERNAL EXAMINATION:

Skull and Central Nervous System:
Numerous patechiae are diffusely scattered in the galea of the scalp. The
cortical vessels of this about 1350 gm brain are moderately congested. There is
no skull fracture, brain tumor, congenital anomaly, significant edema,
inflammation, intracranial hemorrhage either recent or old, infarct either
recent or old or obvious degenerative lesion.

BATES, Cheri Jo

INTERNAL EXAMINATION, CONTINUED:

Neck Organs:
The thyroid cartilage is obliquely cut on each side. Each cut is about 3 cm
leng and angle from lateral above to medially below forming a somewhat Y shape
structure with the apex at about the mid portion of the thyroid cartilage
anteriorly. The upper edges are cut much deeper than the interior portions. The
medial edges of the upper portions of the right and left lobes of the thyroid
are partially incised. The right and left superficial jugular veins are
completely transected. The right common carotid artery is completely transected
about 2 cm above its origin.

Cardiovascular System:
The about 400 gm lung is free in its pleural sac and has no lesion of its
surface or interior. The about 400 gm left lung is also free in its pleural
space. Two moderately superficial lacerations are in the anterior and medial
surface of its upper lobe. There is no significant foreign body obstruction of
the tracheobronchial tree, pulmonary embolu significant atolactasis, emphysema,
pneumonia, significant hemorrhage into either pleural space. There are no
fractures of the hyoid bone or thyroid or tracheal cartilage: other than the
cuts mentioned for the thyroid cartilage. There is no significant edema or
hemorrhage into the lining of the larynx or about the other soft tissues about
the larynx.

Gastrointestinal System:
There are no lesions of the peritoneum, omantum or mesentory. There are no
lesions of the esophagus. The stomach contains at least 100 ml of thick fluid
with particulate food particles in which are easily recognized reasonably large
pieces of apparently beef along with vegetable particles being either and/or
celery and onion and white curd like particles floating in the gastric contents
that appear to be either milk or cottage cheese. There is no lesion of the
stomach, duodenum, remaining small bowel or large bowel including the rectum.
The 120 gm pancreas is in its usual position and has no lesion of its surface
or interior.

Hepatic System:
The about 1250 gm liver is in its usual position and has no lesion of its
surface or interior. A gallbladder is present with no lesion of the wall or
lumen including calculi and there are no lesions of the remaining extrahopatic
biliary duct system.

Lymphocytic System:
The about 1250 gm liver is in its usual position and has no lesion of its
surface or interior. There are no significant lymph node changes in the thorax
or abdomen.

Urinary System:
Each about 160 gm kidney has a capsule that stripe easily leaving a smooth
cortical surface with no lesion. The interiors have the usual cortical and
medullary markings with no lesions and there are no lesions of the calycoal
systems, renal pelvis, uretere or urina: bladder.

BATES, Cheri Jo RC-856-66

INTERNAL EXAMINATION, CONTINUED:

Reproductive System:
The external genitalia are those of an adult female. The vaginal orifice has no
hymen but the usual ring of caruaculae myrtiformae are present. There is no
significant amount of fluid in the vaginal canal, however, dry cotton swabs are
taken. The uterus, ovariea and oviducts are present and there is no evidence of
pregnancy.

Endocrine Systems:
Lacerations of the about 20 gm thyroid have been previously mentioned. There
are no other lesions of its surface or interior. Each adrenal is in its usual
position, has no lesion of its surface or interior and they total about 11 gm.

Skeletal and Muscular Systems:
There is a 1.5 cm oblique cut in the bony portion of the 5th rib anteriorly on
the left corresponding somewhat to the skin laceration over it. There are no
other bony lesions and fractures are looked for. The lacerations of skeletal
and muscle have been mentioned under specific areas.

Again, Ive pointed this out very recently in the Riverside Revisited article,
but the most remarkable aspect of the condition of Cheri Batess body is the
near absence of deep wounds, with the extraordinary exception of the injuries
to the throat. The upper part of the left lung has two moderately superficial
lacerations, which would seem to indicate that her killer was right-handed, or
at least wielding the knife with his right hand, assuming they were face-to-
face.

There is an oblique cut in the bony portion of the 5th rib, again on the left
of the torso, with a depth of 1.5 cm, which is roughly a half-inch.  None of
the torso injuries comes even close to being life-threatening, and there are
only a small handful of them.

BATES, Cheri Jo RC-856-66

ANATOMIC DIAGNOSES:

LACERATIONS OF:

FACE
NECK
HANDS
ARM
FOREARM
LUNG
COMMON CAROTID ARTERY
THYROID
THYROID CARTILAGE
RIB

ABRASIONS OF:
FACE
HANDS
FOREARMS

PETECHIAE OF FOREHEAD

DEATH CERTIFICATE DIAGNOSIS:
Hemorrhage, due to
Laceration of right carotid artery

To reiterate, the handful of wounds to the torso are all superficial.

The wounds to the throat are deep, mortal, and nearly cut her head off.

Does this sound like a Crime of Passion to anyone?

Her killer is in a jealous rage in a pitch dark alley, and he lunges with his
knife at her torso. One would expect him to aim either for the heart or the
crotch (though that is more often where spurned lovers aim their GUNS).

But Cheri Batess torso wasnt stabbed; it was scraped.

BATES, Cheri Jo RC-856-66

COMMENTS:

Death is due to
Ensangulcation due to
Severed right common carotid artery due to
Laceration of neck due to
Probable knife

As the result of the rapid blood loss the subject would go late shock rapidly
and undoubtedly would become unconscious and die in several minutes. The time
interval of minutes might make me wonder why she wouldt scream and run for
help, however, it is very likely that the suddenness and fear caused by the
attack caused her to be faint, hence, allowing no time for many long and loud
calls for help. The syncope would then blend late the unconsciousness from
blood loss and on into death.

Ill admit I dont understand this comment by Dr. Modglin. I was under the
impression that if your carotid artery was severed and both jugular veins were
cut and the blood started spurting out, you would lose consciousness in a
matter of seconds. In any case, if Cheris throat was cut through, that would
logically render her voice box inoperable, which means she couldnt have
screamed once those wounds were inflicted.  Thus, if screams were heard by
witnesses, they had to have been prior to the actual moment of the murder.

The state of rigor mortis, post mortem lividity and body temperature at 0923,
31 October 1966 indicated she had been dead between 9 and 12 hours.

The lacerations are typical of knife cuts and the minimum instrument dimensions
for a knife blade would be ? inch wide and 3 ? inches long. There were notell
tal marks to indicate it had been plunged inup to the hil. The position
(s) of the assailant is/are notproof positiv from the study of the body.

The gastric contents suggest she had eaten a supper type meal probably not more
than 2-4 hours before death.

Vaginal contents are negative for spermatozoa, spermine and choliae.

At least 7 lacerations involve the neck.

The right common carotid artery is transected only once.

The sequence of the lacerations of the neck cannot be absolutely established
nor is there any reasonable suggestion of their order of occurrence from the
examination of the body.

Pathologist,

F. Rene Modglin, M. D.

FRM: mg
22 December 1966

The surgeon points out that the knife was NOT plunged in up to the hilt,
which is to say, Cheri Bates wasnt stabbed. The wound pattern is as follows:

1. incidental scrapes and gashes to the torso and one to the back;

2. defensive wounds to the hands and fingers, likely trying to fend off the
blade;

3. collateral damage to the face, lips, and chin; AND

4. deep incisions to the throat which cause the death.

We have a crime of passion, a murder of rage, in which the killer pretty much
ignores the victim's heart, but is instead absolutely fixated on cutting her
head off.

Thats an unusual killer, if you ask me.

But weve come to expect the unusual in the Cheri Bates case.

We have an outgoing, popular victim who spends the evening inside a school
library but is seen by absolutely no one, not even her friends . . . a supper
eaten in the afternoon that remains in her stomach 5 1/2 hours later . . . a
vehicle the victim was very proud of and kept locked, that sits open with the
windows down and the keys in the ignition and her library books and notepad on
the front seat . . . and a killer who behaves less like Brutus or Cassius than
Robespierre.
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]













**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Butterfield PDF ******
I was looking through Mike Butterfield's 2007 PDF, Zodiac Death Machine, which
Tom emailed to me about a year ago.  I'm going to write a detailed timeline of
the Cheri Bates murder in the next few days, which will be more formalized and
concise than what I've put up on the website so far, but I was curious to see
what Butterfield's own timeline looked like.

Butterfield's timeline for Riverside is largely just a retyping of what's in
Graysmith's Zodiac.  There are also numerous factual errors, just careless
mistakes of the type Butterfield would gloat over with gleeful insults if
someone else had made them.  He does comment on the autopsy, however:

The autopsy report listedlacerations of the face, neck, hands, arm, forearms,
lung, common carotid artery, thyroid, thyroid cartilage, ri andabrasions of
face, hands, forearm withpetechiae of the forehead Petechiael hemorrhages
occur when blood flow is interrupted and vessels burst beneath the skin, or
often in the eyes during strangulation.

While I'm inclined to agree with Butterfield on this, that the petechiae would
seem to point to the victim having been choked at some stage of the attack,
it's interesting that the surgeon neither mentioned them in his comments
section, nor noted the presence of discolored skin in the neck area.

If Cheri Bates was choked at some point, as the petechiae might suggest and as
The Confession Letter attests, it would seem to offer two different
descriptions of her attacker:

1, Either her attacker was exceptionally strong, in the sense that he could
choke a very young, very athletic victim with one hand while slashing her with
a knife held in his other hand, all the while keeping her from running away; OR

2, she was attacked by two men, one from the front and one behind (which more
easily explains the absence of flight).

The absence of discoloration to the neck argues against the first scenario;
however expert her killer may have been, if he was strong enough to have held
her with one hand by the throat, the victim's neck would have been heavily
bruised.

A more likely explanation for the burst blood vessels would be the victim
having to grapple with two men, one of whom held her (likely with her mouth
covered) while the other slashed her throat (most likely from behind).  It's
also the only scenario that makes sense of the concentration of wounds in her
throat.  Since all her other wounds were superficial, and since we know that
she scratched the hair out of one of her assailants (and presumably pulled his
watch off), the chances of a single killer being able to slash her throat so
accurately in a pitch dark alley with an uncooperative victim would seem pretty
slim. 

Few of the wounds were deep; most were superficial lacerations of the arms and
breasts. These wounds, as well as the cuts on Cheri Js hands, and those to
her lips, cheek and face, appeared to have occurred as the killer restrained
the victim.

Again, I don't see how an individual killer manages to inflict mortal wounds in
ONE area of the victim's body and superficial wounds everywhere else.  I don't
see how an individual killer restrains a victim and cuts her throat almost
clear through without causing significant damage anywhere else, particularly
under those circumstances and with that victim.

The petechiael hemorrhaging does suggest Cheri Bates was restrained at some
point . . . but probably not by one killer.

Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]













**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Dave Oranchak ******
Dave Oranchak sent me a message:

Hey Ray! Dave here. I'm genuinely curious about why you feel the need to bash
me on your site. I couldn't tell from your posts what it was that set you
against me. Maybe it's something I've done that I've forgotten about!

Regards,

-Dave (a.k.a., Gareth Penn impersonator)

Hey Dave,

Looks like I finally got your attention! Ill have to try that Gareth Penn
trick with other people. Maybe itll work on the Mayor of San Francisco? He
hasnt returned any of my calls so far.

Youve obviously been reading my websites, so I wont repeat what Ive said
already.

The point about Gareth was that he insists on putting up puzzles on his blog GZ
4216; the most interesting puzzle is why Gareth didnt bother to sue Michael
OHare for publicly holding him up to ridicule in The Washington Monthly
article. I want you to imagine that youd spent almost 30 years of your life
accusing someone of being the most notorious uncaught serial killer since Jack
the Ripper. Then, one day, that person talks disparagingly about you in an op-
ed piece in a national magazine.

So you instantaneously file suit to get his fingerprints and mtDNA, right?

Wrong!

Isaac Asimov once said that he didnt take much pleasure in the scores he got
on IQ tests, since he knew how stupid he was in so many areas such tests didnt
bother to measure. I feel the same way. Its pointless to make points about
Zodiac cryptography if people are ignoring larger issues that are staring them
in the face.

Look, The Cryptogram was a fairly easy multiple substitution cipher, which is
why I believe Mike Rodellis hypothesis that some agency (CIA, NSA, FBI, Mensa,
American Cryptogram Association) actually solved the puzzle within a few hours,
and then The Cryptogram was intentionally altered and put out to see if the
killer himself would be stupid enough to point out the discrepancies. This sort
of ruse where police put out an altered version of facts or events hoping that
a killer will come forward and correct them is ironically called a key. And
Donald Gene Harden was considered a suspect in the immediate aftermath of his
sending in the solution.

Except, of course, that that so-called solution tells us absolutely nothing. We
dont know anything more about the killer after The Cryptogram was solved
than we knew before . . . except for which symbols in his puzzle stood for
which letters.

Did you ever read Jim Boutons book, Ball Four? At one point, he talks about
the patter ballplayers employ during pepper games. He quotes Frank Crosetti
exclaiming while fielding grounders, Hey, the old shillelagh! Bouton says
that the patter is true nonlanguage, specifically designed to say nothing.

Thats what I say about The Cryptograms solution, which is specifically
designed to distract the reader from its actual intent. The Zodiac is a master
of misdirection, and The Cryptogram is arguably the supreme example of it,
since he gets everyone to follow his buried treasure directions to what looks
like a dead end. And then, when they get there, they give up and walk away,
instead of asking themselves what it is theyve actually learned about the
Zodiac.

And the answer is: theyve learned which symbols stand for which letters.

And thats ALL theyve learned.

Dave, trust methats the lesson of The Cryptogram.

Now try applying that knowledge to The 340.

All the various brute force solutions youre suggesting on ZKF miss the point.

Since the physical copies of TZMS are where I spend the most time on the
cryptography of the case, and since I recently scanned the 1993 edition of my
book onto my TZMS website, Ill conclude with a cryptographic point.

Pages 275-276 of TZMS 1993-2:

The most striking result in the digital undertext is ALIGHIERI, the surname of
the poet DANTE, a string with which it overlaps the second time. It is a 23-
digit string, which should occur once every 8,388,608 digits. Here, in the
space of about 3,000 digits, it occurs twice.

Keep in mind that the entire Zodiac literature would consist of approximately
40,000 digits, maybe slightly more than that, if you converted every letter of
every message into Morse code (and then, both to allow conversions to binary
math and to make notation simpler, you used 1 for dash and 0 for dot).

Any particular 23-digit string showing up at random in a document of that
length should happen about once in 200 Zodiac literatures. For it to happen
twice, about once in 50,000 Zodiac literatures.

Those are long odds. Ive already pointed out the likelihood of EASTER in Morse
code showing up in the names of both Vallejo drivers. A killer would have to
terrorize 2500 lovers lanes to duplicate that coincidence. I tend to think the
cops would catch him before he could pull it off.

Of course, you try explaining that to a Zodiac message board poster, and he
just blinks at you.

Try this exercise, if you dont believe me. Convert a document the size of The
Confession Letter to Morse code, and then check it for the strings I found in
The Confession Letter, using the SEARCH function of your computer. Its a
fairly simple exercise for someone of your expertise. The strings are cited at
TZMS 1993-1, pages 118-125.

Let me tell you what youre going to discover for yourself. Youll type in a
given string, hit the SEARCH button . . . and nothing. Over and over and over
again.

Its because all the Zodiac documents contain undertexts, and non-Zodiac
documents (such as the 1978 letter) dont.

Thats the difference.

Mike Butterfield has mocked me in The Crackpot Files for saying, If you knew
more about the case, youd have a different opinion. Trust me.

When I said that to Tom DiMarco, it was the cryptographic undertexts I was
talking about. Thats how you know the Zodiac isnt Mr. Magoo. But even if you
dont look at the documents, the conventional aspects of the crimes tell you
the same thing. As Michael Cole recently pointed out, the level of Premeditated
Situational Control is what gives it away. There was nothing random about what
he did.
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]













**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Enough About Me ******
Since a certain Panamanian expatriate can write about himself in the 3rd
person, so can I

Ray Grant was born on 34th Street in Midtown Manhattan at 10:54AM on Sunday,
April 29, 1951. He graduated from The University of Pittsburgh in 1972 with a
B. A. in English Writing with Departmental Honors. He joined American Mensa in
1984, and read Gareth Penns article about the Zodiac murders, The Calculus of
Evil, in the July/August 1985 edition of The Mensa Bulletin. He wrote The
Zodiac MurderSolved! in 1990, and sent 96 copies of the book to his suspects
place of employment. He updated the book in 1991, 1993, and 1994; it is now an
Internet website: http://www.thezodiacmurderssolved.com.

It was none other than Ray who originally coined the term Zodiac killer in
his 1991 pamphlet, The Zodiac Killer Lives!In Brookline, which was sent to
everyone who lived within a 3-block radius of his suspect. Prior to that, every
public reference to the killer used the terms Zodiac or the Zodiac. The new
term did not become standard until it was used on the Internet, to filter out
links to horoscope sites (i. e., searches for Zodiac killer instead of
Zodiac).

Ray is mentioned in books written by the only two authors who preceded him in
writing comprehensive books about the Zodiac killer.

In Gareth Penns Times 17 (1987), Ray is referred to on page 40:

About a year and a half after Leonard Lake made the front page, I was informed
by a correspondent in Pennsylvania that the Boston Strangler had been
marrieand the father of children.

In Robert Graysmiths Zodiac Unmasked (2002), Ray is referred to by Captain Roy
Conway of Vallejo PD on page 421:

The other interesting thing about the Zodiac case is that there are several
people who have become obsessed with solving the case . . . There are private
citizens who became obsessed with the case and have convinced themselves they
have absolutely solved it. They are very absolute about it . . . All three have
written lengthy documentation about it . . . Another used mathematics to prove
it. In his mind he is absolutely convinced hs solved the Zodiac case. He
thinks is a college professor at [Harvard] who now works for the University
of California at Berkeley. If you talk to that man and give him any time, he is
absolutely, unequivocally convinced. He says is mathematically impossible for
anybody to be the Zodiac except [his] suspect.

In addition to talking to Roy Conway in the early 1990s, Ray has spoken with
every police agency involved in the Zodiac investigation, as well as several
people associated with the case who are now deceased, including George Bawart,
Melvin Belli, and Ray Lauritzen.

When ABC did a Primetime Live show on the Zodiac case in October 2002, Ray
wrote to the producer of the program, Harry Phillips. Phillips then called Ray
on the telephone and said it was interesting to see his name in the return
address of the letter, because he already knew who he was.

Suffice it to say: Ray Grant has been known to those covering and investigating
the case far longer than almost anyone currently associated with it (including
that shadowy figure skulking in the sweltering jungles of Central America).

Nothing like ZKT has ever existed before, except in some areas of Ray Grants
own work.

ZodiacKillerTimeline.com will soon become the most discussed and referencedand
imitated--resource in the history of serial murder investigations.



Terminology
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]














**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Home Page ******
Hi! And welcome to ZodiacKillerTimeline.com!

My name is Ray Grant. But enough about me.

This is a website about the Zodiac murders.

For all intents and purposes, its the ONLY website about the Zodiac murders.

If you've visited someone else's WEBSITE, or read someone else's BOOK, or seen
someone elses MOVIE, or listened to someone elses RADIO INTERVIEW, or watched
someone else's TV SHOW . . . youve only had the raw, unprocessed facts of the
case recited to you.

And the worst part is, many of those raw facts turn out to be wrong.

Speaking of cases . . . if you went to a doctor for over a decade and he
limited himself to repeating your symptoms back to you, and things obviously
werent getting any better . . . would you keep going to him?

So many self-appointed Zodiac doctors . . . and never even a hint of a
diagnosis.

Sounds like malpractice to me!

This website doesnt deliver embryonic material. For me to do that would be a
miscarriage of justice and logic and a dereliction of my duty.  First, Do No
Harm is a good oath for real doctors to take; Try To Do Some Good is a better
oath for investigators.

This is a website that processes information and develops ideas. It may take
longer, and involve some labor, but in the end well have a Zodiac Killer
Timeline that will stand by itself and, I hope, live on.



Inception
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]














**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Horan Revisited ******
I will be posting more material onto Riverside Timeline A in the next day or
so, this time dealing with some of the other suspects and story lines in the
Cheri Bates murder. I appreciate Mike Kellehers comments about what Ive put
up so far, and I think he has the right idea: if the Zodiac online community
cant agree on theories, maybe we can at least do what the Zodiologists website
has done and come to certain basic conclusions based on analysis of the facts.

Ive become a bit ticked-off that Thomas Horan is now taking pot-shots at
individuals, particularly people like Morf13 and Tracers who have gone out of
their way to keep the Zodiac case discourse civil. Name-calling is usually not
indicative of confidence in ones ideas.

I've noticed that Horan doesn't want to take up the issues with his theory that
I cited last April over at ZKF, and then again recently on Horan Timeline on
this website. I've been checking his Twitter account for the past week or so,
and not a peep out of him about me, even though he's attacking everyone else.

Ive been reading the comments section of the article on Horans book at
Michael Coles website, ZodiacRevisited.com., which right now is where the
action is on the Zodiac case. I will quote Horans comments in bold and then
comment:

One large piece of Stins shirt is still missing. That one was probably torn
off by the shooter, for whatever reason.

"For whatever reason"--why on Earth would the shooter tear off a piece of
Stines shirt, if not to be able to prove that The Writer was also The Killer
later on?



The problem Horan has with the torn shirt is that he has to explain why the
picture at the morgue already shows the back of the shirt missing, and why the
picture of the body in the front seat shows his stomach. Why would the victims
stomach be showing if the killer didnt pull out his shirt after shooting him?
Was Paul Stine driving around San Franciscos Theatre District with his shirt
pulled out and his stomach exposed?



So Horan has to say, Well, the killer tore off a piece of the shirt (for
whatever reason), AND THEN The Writers accomplice (cop, morgue steward,
anonymous morgue employee, medical examiner) tore off ANOTHER piece so The
Writer could then mail parts of it with his letters.

Unfortunately, no one at SFPD seems to have noticed any pieces missing until
the second piece started showing up inZodia latters. This second swatch, a
narrow strip which was quite clearly torn off after the first one, was
returned, in two pieces, one mailed to Belli, the other to the Examiner/
Chronicle. No piece of that swatch is missing; the whole thing was mailed in
two letters.

However many pieces of the shirt were torn off, theres no way of telling what
the time sequence would have been. We know the killer must have torn the shirt
because the victims stomach was showing. So Horan wants us to believe that, if
two swatches were torn off, they must have been torn off by two different
people. But that doesnt follow. The killer may have torn a large piece off the
back of the shirt, and noted that there was a loose piece still connected to
the shirt, and torn that piece off as well.

Is not just that there are two distinctly different tears. The second, narrow
strip has unmistakable bloodstains which show that the second strip of cloth
was torn off AFTER the body had been rolled over onto the seat by Dousette, the
ambulance steward. These stains (the technical term isblo) are identical to
the stains on the rest of the shirt.

We dont know exactly what the killer did with the body. Horan needs that
second strip to have been torn by someone other than the killer, so he assumes
Doucette was the only one who could have moved it.

They do not show any signs of this strip of cloth having been used to wipe any
surface, but of course, that alone doest prove much, since the story of the
killer wiping down the cab is an exaggeration by Graysmith, and not what the
witnesses actually reported at the time. But the second tear is glaringly
obvious, and so is the pattern of blood stains.

This assumes that the shirt is what the killer would have used to wipe down the
cab, and we dont know that. He might have done it with his handkerchief.

A passenger shoots a cabbie in the head, killing him instantly. He gets into
the front seat of the cab and hacks off a piece of the cabbies shirt. He risks
his own freedom to do that, obviously. Two days later, the newspaper receives a
letter claiming credit for the murder and containing a swatch of the shirt.

Thomas Horan admits that the killer hacked off a piece of the shirt, because
photos of the body show that the victims shirt has been pulled out, exposing
his stomach.

But, Horan insists, the killer isnt the one who sent the swatch of shirt with
the letter. A SECOND individual whom Horan conjured up out of whole cloth (get
it: whole cloth?) made a SECOND tear in the shirt some time afterward, and
what PROVES this is that there were TWO DISTINCT TEARS (which could not
possibly have been made by the same person) and a different bloodstain pattern
from the first piece (never mind that the first piece hasnt come to light
yet).



That isnt Argument; thats whats known as Special Pleading.

In short, the anwer to your question is yeaccording to SFPD patrolman
Pelisseti, who was first to arrive at the scene, Stine was lying facedown
across the front bench seat with this head resting on the floorboard, passenger
door closed. This makes sense, since the cockamamie theory that the shooter
cradled Stins head in his lap makes very little sense. The actual witnesses
reported no such thing. They did not, as is commonly believed, have a very
clear view of the scene, and could not see into the passenger side of the cab
at all. So the shooter most likely leaned over the body as any person would,
and Pelissets report would appear to confirm that.

I know Horan has an extensive academic resume, so Ill just assume he has a
degree in Cockamamie Theories. The killer would have had to have done more than
lean over the body to pull his shirt out and hack half the back of it off.
Bodies are heavy and the front seats of cabs arent particularly roomy. At some
point the killer would have had to wield the body in some way, however it was
done.

The crime scene photos taken by SFPD show Stine on his back, his arms hanging
out of the open passenger door. Dousette was the first to roll Stine over onto
his back to check for vital signs, etc. When the photographs were taken,
Stins jacket and shirt were pulled up partway over his head, almost as if
someone had tried to remove them. The shooter may have done this while tearing
off the large, still-missing rectangle of cloth from the striped shirt.
Dousette may have done it while checking for possible, further gunshot wounds
and so forth.

Armond Pelissetti says, in the Zodiac Directors Cut DVD, that he was 99-
point-9 certain that Paul Stine was dead when he first saw him, from the
position of the body in the front seat and the amount of blood. Pelissetti was
a first responder; Doucette was a morgue steward, not an ambulance attendant. I
think its fair to say that Doucettes rolling of the body and examination were
perfunctory, as these things go. Its doubtful that a morgue steward would move
a body around much before the detectives got there.

Either way, the upper portions of the shirt clearly show that the jacket
protected that part of the shirt from picking up, orblotting pools of blood
from the seat. So does the second strip of shirt, that was mailed in two pieces
in two Zodiac letters. Some of the stains are contiguous, that is, shared
across, both the shirt and the second strip, indicating the stains were blotted
at the same time. Lastly, the second strip of shirt fails to show any signs of
having been used towipe dow the cab, which, again, may not have actually
happened, even with the first piece of shirt. Lastly, the shirt, and the second
strip of shirt, clearly show that the second strip of shirt could not have been
torn off firsit could only have been torn off after the first piece. It could
not have been torn off OF the first piece, as the second tear is plainly
visible on the shirt itself (my book goes into more detail on all this.) And
lastly, the blots show it was torn off AFTER the body had been rolled onto the
seat. All of this plainly visible to the naked eye. Under the microscope . . .
, well, read the book.

No, thanks.

I assume Thomas Horan is a professor of Forensic Alchemy, since hes trying so
hard to blind us with science. Paul Stine was shot in the head. As Dave Toschi
noted at the crime scene, he bled profusely. Linking the blotting pattern of
blood on the shirt to the movement of the body on the seat is a bit much, under
the circumstances. We know the killer tore the first piece off. He probably
tore the second piece off, too. Note that Horan makes sure that the critical
moment is when Doucette rolls the body . . . not when the killer does the same
thing.

That is, there are distinctblot (as opposed to dripand yes, there is a
way to tell the difference, but even more importantly, they are identical to,
and in some cases, contiguous with, blots on the rest of the back of the shirt)
on the strip of shirt in question, but no smears. In addition to trying to
explain all this in words, I will be making some short videos about the shirt
and possibly a LHR shooting reconstruction. So far as publishing photos of the
shirt, that is another one of those legal questions I still need a couple of
months to get consensus on.

Blood drips, blots, and arterial spray are difficult enough to differentiate in
a room of a house by forensic professionals. When a rank amateur like Horan
with an axe to grind tries to do it in the dark, cramped quarters of a cabs
front seat, with the condition of the victims body being initially compromised
by the killer cutting his clothing, and the morgue steward then moving the body
back from its initial resting place, I just hope the accompanying video is VERY
short. Im not going to watch it, I just hate to see Horan waste any more of
his life on this.

1. Speculation is the hallmark of this entire mythos. So I dot do it. I only
consider facts.

The killer cut the victims shirt after the murder but was not the one who sent
pieces of it to the newspapers. Some SECOND person cut the shirt, and then a
THIRD person sent the cut piece to the newspapers.

Youre right. That cant be speculation, because no one would ever believe it.

2. According to the letters themselves, the motive for writing the letters was
to convince the publinot the police, who immediately saw the letters were a
hoathat a cult loony had murdered David and Betty Lou. For reasons not
entirely clear, VPD made a BIG deal out of that first prank call, even though,
again, anyone involved in the case knew first-hand it was also a prank. NCSO
also made a big deal out the second prank call. Interestingly, neither Rust nor
Lonergan seem to have swallowed the bait, only Narlow and Lundblab. Thas one
of many good reasons detectives always work in pairs, never alone.

Apparently prank callers and letter hoaxers also work in pairs, though
completely independent of each other. If there were similar prank calls in
Vallejo and Napa in that general time period, the police havent mentioned
them.

The murder of Jensen and Faraday was notunsolved David Wally Ott and his
gang look pretty guilty, conviction or no.

Can't argue with that logic.  If Im ever up on a murder rap, I hope I dont
see Mr. Horan in the jury box!

IF byoriginal kille you mean the junkie who accidentally shot Stine when
the worn-out, hair-trigger 5 dollargu he bought at the pawn shop went off
in his hand when Stine breathed funny, then, yes.

And, as any junkie would, he then got into the front seat of the cab and hacked
off the back of Paul Stines shirt. See, even though the shooting was
accidental, he still wanted a souvenir.

Even the morgue professionals who handled Stines shirt would not have assumed
that the killer hacked it off. They would have thought the shirts condition
incongruous, but would not likely have jumped to the immediate conclusion that
the killer did it, since theres no obvious motive for such an act.

If a SECOND person cut Stines shirt, who would it have been?

Someone at the morgue?

If The Writer had an accomplice at the morgue, why werent all the murders he
wrote about in San Francisco?

I hope I dont sound crass if I compare two other serial killers. Ted Bundy
operated under a disadvantage that wasnt shared by The Green River Killer.
Bundys victims were innocent young women whose murders made headlines and led
to feature stories in the newspapers. Gary Ridgways victims were almost all
prostitutes or runaways, people who didnt have detailed backstories.

Another way of saying this is that Bundys victims were of a type whose murders
would be individually investigated, even if law enforcement was unaware that
they were connected. Granted, there was a Green River Killer Task Force in
Washington state, and the effect of Bundys homicides was diffused somewhat by
his changing jurisdictions (Seattle Ted became Utah Ted and Colorado Ted, for
example), but still, the demographics of victims makes a difference.

One could make a fairly strong case that the most publicized victims in any
serial murder case, as a group, are the Zodiac victims, particularly if you
include Cheri Bates, Donna Lass, and Joan Webster.

The Writer of the Zodiac letters went to a lot of trouble to wage his campaign,
making up ciphers and drawing diagrams of bombs. If his letters were actually
hoaxes, and nothing really connected the crimes to one another, then it was
critical that the murders he claimed remained unsolved.

So why would that Zodiac Hoaxer pick two of the most notorious murder events in
the history of VallejoLake Herman Road and Blue Rock Springswhen, by Horans
own admission, The Writer had an accomplice at the San Francisco morgue?

Why wouldnt the accomplice wait for a John or Jane Doe murder right there in
the big city, let a few weeks pass to be confident it wouldnt be solved, and
then claim THAT murder as his own?

Thomas Horan keeps talking about how incompetent SFPD was. Well then, why
wouldnt the hoaxer have taken advantage of that, instead of claiming notorious
murders in three other jurisdictions (Solano County, Vallejo, Napa)?

And why on Earth would The Writer have The Accomplice cut the Stine shirt for
him, and then mail a swatch of that shirt less than 48 hours after the murder?

What if the real killer pulls another hold-up that Monday night, and the 5
dollar gun he uses is found on his person and traced back to the Presidio
Heights job?

Junkies are impatient; they wont wait while you construct your next cipher.

If I may paraphrase Carl Sagan, The Great Zodiac Hoax of 1969 is to serial
murder investigations what Worlds In Collision is to astronomy.



 
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]













**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Horan Timeline ******
I happened to be reading the Thomas Horan articles on Zodiac Revisited, and I
remembered having responded to some of Horan's points when they were posted on
ZKF back in April.  Since most of the posters on ZodiacRevisited.com read this
website, I thought I'd reprint part of an article I put up on
ZodiacKillerFactsInfo.com back then.

With all due respect to G. Gluckman, tricking Horan into saying his name
backward won't work.  It worked with Mr. Mxyzptlk, because what that pesky
sprite conjured was real magic (it also worked with God himself, in the great
cult movie Warlock).  Logic says if you're under the influence of a SPELL, you
can reverse it by SPELLING the sorcerer's name backward and getting him to read
it aloud.

I'm doubting Thomas has any such powers; he's more a street huckster selling
sideshow spiel.

You put him out of business by showing the crimped corners of his crooked deck.

This won't take long.

Horan claims that The Writer (October 13, 1969) demonstrates that he knows
nothing about the murder by citing the corner of Washington & Maple in the
first Presidio Heights letter, when the crime occurred at Washington & Cherry.

The opposite is true.  "Washington & Maple" is what Paul Stine wrote in his
trip book.  The Writer is, in fact, showing that he knows what the original
destination given to the cab driver was.

If The Writer was not also The Killer, he'd have written "Washington & Cherry"
in the letter.  The police report and the original newspaper accounts mention
"Washington & Cherry", not "Washington & Maple".  No police confederate of The
Writer would have been aware of the trip book entry, either, because no one
would have assumed that the trip book entry would differ from the actual crime
scene location.  The only ones "on the inside" who would have been aware of the
discrepancy were Toschi and Armstrong, the two detectives assigned to the case
. . . so is Horan claiming that either Toschi or Armstrong was supplying The
Writer with his inside information?  Two-man detective teams are notoriously
closed-mouthed about progress they're making on a case (as Mark Ruffalo/Toschi
demonstrates in a lunch counter scene with Jake Gyllenhaal/Graysmith in
Fincher's Zodiac).

If that isn't enough of a stretch for you, let's pull out the shirt tail.     

The faking of the letters depends on someone on the inside, a police
confederate of The Writer, somehow gaining access to Paul Stines shirt. I
continue to wait for Mr. Horan to explain how that could have been done.  Keep
in mind that no one processing the shirt would have been aware that it might
have been cut by the killer; they would have noticed that the shirt tail was
cut off, but would have assumed that that had happened prior to, and in a
manner unconnected with, the murder.

We have photos of the shirt as it looked after it was removed from the body at
the morgue. Fully half the back of the shirt was chopped off. For The Writers
confederate to cut the shirt, hed have to have done it either prior to the
body arriving at the morgue, or immediately prior to the bodys being processed
at the morgue. Horan isnt forthcoming about who might have done this, but its
a short list of potential suspects:

1. Officer Armond Pelissetti
2. Officer Frank Peda
3. Morgue Steward Doucette
4. Inspector Walt Kracke
5. Inspector Dave Toschi

Only those five people had access to the body prior to its arrival at the
morgue, with Frank Peda being the most likely of the five, since he was left
alone at the cab when Pelissetti went walking down Cherry Street.  I can't
imagine that Frank Peda, if he was in cahoots with The Writer, would have taken
the chance of getting into the front of the cab and hacking off the tail of
Paul Stine's shirt.  Witnesses were present (the teenagers who saw the killer),
more were collecting at the corner (since the police car was parked in the
middle of the intersection), and handling the body would mean leaving his own
prints in the front seat.

Morgue stewards typically work in two-man tandems, and the body is bagged and
strapped and rolled into the back of the van and then locked down.  Cutting off
the victim's shirt tail would have been problematical, to say the least.  The
body would be by itself for the trip to the morgue, but both stewards would
normally ride in the front seat.

6. an anonymous morgue employee

What are the chances that The Writers confederate was a morgue employee? The
only employee with a conceivable motive to hack the shirt would be a medical
examiner or the coroner; anyone lower than that would not likely be The
Writers confederate, since his value prior to the murder would have been
negligible. If The Writers confederate is a morgue professional, why would The
Writer have begun with the murders in Vallejo and Napa? Wouldnt a disgruntled
medical examiner have provided material from other, more anonymous murders from
the San Francisco area, preferably John Does?

The other problem with the shirt fragments is that The Writer had been sending
his letters in The Bay Area since July, and none of the newspapers had
suggested that the letters themselves were hoaxes. So why take the additional
chance of bringing a confederate aboard when theres no need to do that?
Sending the shirt fragments is a major step up from just providing crime scene
details; it puts both The Writer and his confederate at a very serious risk of
obstruction of justice, one he doesnt have to take based on the previous
acceptance of the letters. So why do it?

But the strongest argument against the shirt being hacked by anyone other than
the killer is the timing.  Paul Stine is murdered on Saturday, October 11,
1969; The Writer mails his first Presidio Heights letter on Monday, October 13,
1969.  If a month had gone by between the murder and the first letter (as
happened, for example, in Riverside), one could argue that The Writer waited
until it became clear that police were probably not going to solve the murder.

For The Writer to mail the bloody fragment a mere two days after the murder,
he's taking a tremendous chance that the Stine murder will not be solved AFTER
police receive the letter with the shirt swatch.  If it is, down the toilet
goes all his work on The Cryptogram.  The Cryptogram cover letters are mailed
many months after the Lake Herman Road murders, and almost a full month after
the Blue Rock Springs murder.  And The Writer never says anything about the
Lake Berryessa attack.

A cabbie murderer is the personification of a disorganized killer.  So why
would such an elaborate hoaxer go to all the trouble of obtaining a piece of a
victim's bloody shirt . . . and then risk exposure of his hoax by sending that
swatch 48 hours after the murder?  It's not as if he wasn't going to write
about the murder in more detail--he does just that almost a month later.

It doesn't make sense.

Of course, Horan's Hypothesis never did.    
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]













**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Inception ******

COBB: I have a test for you.

ARIADNE: Yore not going to tell me anything about this first?

COBB: Before I describe the job, I have to know you can do it.

ARIADNE: Why?

COBB: Is not, strictly speaking, legal.


In the movie Inception, Dom Cobb gives the student architect, Ariadne, a quiz.


COBB: You have two minutes to design a maze that it takes one minute to solve.


He hands her a notebook with grid lines and times her. Her first maze is a
simple grid--too simple. His pen finds the exit in a few seconds. He rips out
the page and crumples it in one hand as he hands the notebook back. Her second
maze is more complex than the first, but not complex enough. He solves this one
just as quickly and shakes his head.


COBB: Yore going to have to do better than that.


She yanks the notebook out of his hands, looks at the grid lines on the page,
turns it over to the blank side of the cover, and draws an oval labyrinth
without straight lines. His pen starts and stops and then hesitates as she
watches, faintly smirking. He finally stares down at the curved walls of the
third maze in wonderment.


COBB: Thas more like it!


The first maze I created was TZMS. It failed, at least in the sense that it
didnt convince everyone to remain inside the puzzle and follow it to the end.
And it was still very much under construction as they wandered through itmaybe
that was the problem?

The second maze was ZKFI. Since it was more conventional, more people stayed
longer inside it. But they still ended up retracing their steps and exiting
back out the entrance.

ZKT is the third maze.

Like Inception itself, this maze is multi-layered. It is a dream in which the
participants are aware theyre dreaming. But instead of opening our eyes at the
end of each episode, well descend still another level deeper . . .



Enough About Me
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]













**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Mostly Morf ******
Im watching the Steelers game on TV as I type this, so rather than attempt any
in-depth analysis of the Riverside murder, I thought Id address some points
made on ZodiacRevisited.com, mostly by Morf13. The reason for my doing this
should become clear as I do it.

A quick word: Morf13 is a good guy. About 3 years ago he got fed up with all
the sniping in the Zodiac online community and decided to start up his own
message board, with the help of AK Wilks, which would concentrate on discussing
the case itself and dispense with all the personal stuff. Im not really a
message board person, which is why Ive chosen to respond to any points made by
others on my own websites. My experience in August 2011 of having 4-
5 consecutive posts deleted by ZK.com moderators, mostly because they were too
long, was pretty much the last straw, though granted Ive posted a few times
on Toms board in the year or so since. Morf13s main criticism of me has been
that I tend to hijack threads, which may have some validity since people like
The Foreigner and Tracers have said the same thing, but I had to laugh when I
saw Morf13 posting lengthy comments on ZodiacRevisited.com articles, including
one devoted to ZKT. I guess whether you think youre being hijacked or not
depends entirely on which ultimate destination you had in mind.

Heres the initial comment he posted on Mike Kellehers article about my ZKT
site:

morf13 August 15, 2012 at 12:12 pm
Interestint possibilities that Ray Grant raises(I am certainly not endorsing
any particular theory of his). I personally have attempted to reach out to 2
different people that knew Cheri, and got no responses from them . . .

Morf13 posts under the Comments section of an article about my Riverside
Timeline, he types exactly one vague sentence about that article, more than
half of which is an emphatic renunciation of my work in general, and then
abruptly launches into his own speculation about the Bates case which goes on
and on in a very long post. Would it be fair to call that a hijacking of the
thread?

Lets take a look at slightly more recent comments on the same topic by Morf13.

morf13 August 19, 2012 at 8:46 am
Despite the DNA results here ruling their suspect out as the source of the DNA
from the Bates crime scene, Riverside PD REFUSES to let go of him as a suspect,
and in my opinion, has stubbornly and recklessly jeopardized the chances of
Chers case ever being solved.

Well, I am certainly not endorsing the actions of Riverside PD, vis-?-vis the
decision to make Bob Barnett the chief suspect after the fingerprints from
Riverside and those from Presidio Heights were found not to match (see the
October 20, 1969 memo to Napa SO by Chief Kinkead).

But accusing Riverside PD of being stubborn and reckless and jeopardizing the
chances of the Bates case ever being solved is one of those pot/kettle, glass
house/stones, bramble/pomegranate tree situations.

Morf, listen carefully: 65 witnesses inside and outside The RCC Library that
night never saw Cheri Bates, her stomach contents tell us she was abducted
earlier in the evening, the condition her car was left in tells us that she
didnt leave it that way voluntarily, the actions The Confession Letter claims
she took are completely uncharacteristic of her, at least according to her
friends and fiance, and the autopsy report of the wounds on her body tells us
she couldnt realistically have been assaulted by just one killer.

And yet, the one major Zodiac website administrator who refuses to use his real
name (as opposed to Mike Butterfield, Michael Cole, Howard Davis, Chris Farmer,
Ray Grant, Tom Voigt, and Chris Yarbrough) INSISTS upon speculating about what
Cheri Bates did AFTER she walked out of the library and found her car wouldnt
start.

In addition, they seem to want to distance themselves from and possibility of
Zodiac being involved in her case, despite the fact that State writing expert
and primary Zodiac document examiner, Sherwood Morrill, being of the opinion
that Zodiac was indeed the writer of letters received in the Bates case.

Ive already listed the letters I believe were written by the Zodiac on the
TZMS website. Essentially, I believe all the Zodiac letters are authentic,
including The Hole Card and The SLA Card, with the exception of The April 1978
Letter (which was almost certainly written by Dave Toschi), and including all
three of the Riverside writings (The Desk Poem was not technically a letter,
since it was never sent through the mail).

But Ill concede that handwriting analysis, and for that matter, document
examination, appears to be an inexact science. As Ive said many times, and as
can be seen in my analysis of Zodiac letters in TZMS 1993 (mostly on TZMS 1993-
2), now posted on my TZMS website, the strongest reason to believe the Zodiac
letters were all written by the same entity is that all of them contain a
cryptographic undertext.

If you put those three shared characteristics between the Riverside
communications and The Bay Area Zodiac letters together: the general tone of
the messages, the handwriting similarity, and the cryptographic undertexts, and
add to them that the Zodiac acknowledged his riverside activity in a letter
from March 1971, and that virtually no other killers had written to the
newspapers prior to 1966, I really dont understand why some people still
believe Riverside wasnt the Zodiac.

Either Seagull or Tracers or Tahoe27 (I get those three mixed-up) put forth the
opinion that The Confession Letter contained an attitude toward women in
general that was much darker and more pathological than what was found in the
Zodiac letters. I wont argue with that as an impression, but I question how
much weight we can assign to it as categorically separating one letter writer
from another. I hate to keep harping on this, but I minored in Psych, and would
have double-majored in English Writing and Psych if Id taken the single-credit
Psych labs attached to each course (six of themI was 6 credits short of a
major). I had a significant amount of clinical experience as a student intern
(though that term wasnt commonly used back then), and I have to stress that
all the psychologizing that you see on Zodiac message boards (particularly on
ZKF, but you see it on all the Z boards) is just poking around in the dark. You
cant make anything approaching a clinical diagnosis without having a subject
to examine. Period. And it is generally a mistake to assume that real people
are as consistent as either fictional characters or pathological prototypes. If
they were, there might not be any serial killers or mass murderers, because
theyd stick out like sore thumbs while they were still in the developmental
stage. Preventing crime would be done along the lines of Minority Report,
except that the predictors would be psychologists instead of psychics.

Furthermore,there ARE some files in the FBI reports that seem to indicate there
was a comparison made between Bates case prints & Zodiac case prints, BUT,
there is no mention of the results which seems a bit curious. I wonder if there
is a match that authorities are keeping to themselves.

The opposite is true. The behavior of Riverside PD, which was enthusiastic
about the Zodiac link until after the comparison was made, tells us that the
latents left on Cheri Batess car did NOT match the prints taken in Presidio
Heights. In other words, if the Zodiac killed Cheri Bates, then the Zodiac is
at least two different people.

Also, there has been extensive discussions on various forums and sites, in
which people have noted some common spelling errors,etc between the Bates
confession lette, and Zodias writing. Riverside felt that the details in
the confession letter were known only by the killer, so in my mind, this doesnt
do ANYTHING to rule Zodiac out as possibly being Chers killer.

As I stated, the circumstantial case connecting the Riverside writings to the
Zodiac letters in The Bay Area is overwhelming. It appears to be the same
writer based on general characteristics (language, tone, handwriting, and the
primary motive of publicity for his crimes). There is also the absence of any
alternative hypothesis: if, as Tom Voigt has suggested, The Confession Letter
is a hoax, then it is an unusually elaborate hoax (two mailings, multiple
carbon copies, a postmark 30 days after the murder) with no apparent follow-up.
The hoaxer made ONE phone call shortly after the murder, sent ONE very long and
detailed typed letter a month later . . . and was never heard from again. Most
elaborate hoaxers keep writingWearside Jack, the Yorkshire Rippers
doppelganger, sent three letters and a cassette tape and also made phone calls
to the police.

If theres anything that absolutely jumps out at us about the Cheri Bates case,
its that the police had no leads. When one compares the amount of
investigative legwork that was done, and how much manpower was used, with what
the police actually went withthe Bob Barnett circumstantial case, which, in
hindsight, was nonexistentit tells us that they had ZERO local suspects.

That doesnt mean they didnt check out everyone in proximity to the victim,
like a stone dropped in a pond, starting with Cheri Bates and moving outward
concentrically. It means that, no matter how thorough their investigation
wasand the library reenactment tells us Riverside PDs due diligence was as
exhaustive as any local investigation of a co-ed murder has ever beenthey
didnt find anything.

Cheri Bates was killed by the Zodiac. The only reason to doubt that was the FBI
mismatch of fingerprints between Riverside and Presidio Heights, based on the
assumption that either Cheri Bates or Paul Stine was killed by a single
individual acting without an accomplice. But the wounds cited in the Cheri
Bates autopsy are consistent with at least two assailants working in tandem,
unless one assumes that the victim fainted, fell to the ground, and then
awakened in time to scream as her killer was cutting her throat.

Personally, I tend to think Chers killer was likely around her age. The
evidence suggests that she went off to a dimly lighted area for some time with
her killer before she was attacked. I dont think she would have went off with a
stranger, and I dont think she would have went off with a guy that was alot
older then her. I think she felt at ease with and likely knew her killer, and
didnt feel unsafe going with him, and this suggests a person that was around
her age, possibly a fellow Ramona HS graduate or RCC student.

Cheri Bates was 18 years old. If her killer was her age, hed have been 20 or
21 when the Zodiac events in The Bay Area took place. 21 is younger than any of
the estimates of the Zodiacs age.

Theres no EVIDENCE suggesting Cheri Bates went off to a dimly lighted area.

The eyewitnesses dont place her either in the library or on the street. Her
stomach contents suggest she was abducted for several hours prior to her death.
The condition her car was left in argues against her leaving it that way
voluntarily. Both Cheris friends and her fiance have said she was terrified of
the dark and would NEVER have walked down that alley voluntarily.

Additionally, the walk from her car to that alley was 75 yards. There were pay
phones closer than that from which she could call friends to pick her up, or
call her dad at the house of his friend, since shed have known who hed gone
to the beach with.

If Cheri Bates was killed by an individual, that individual would have had his
face scratched-up and tufts of hair pulled out. If the Timex watch was
legitimately pulled off by the victim, that would have taken a significant
amount of force, and we can thus be sure that an individual assailant would
have been noticeably disheveled in the immediate aftermath of the murder.

All the males in Cheris class at Ramona High School were checked out. All her
male classmates at RCC were checked out. The police had visual inspection of
face and hair to go by, fingerprints, and would have asked for alibis.
Additionally, all those so-called friends of Bob Barnett who tattled on him
could have been checked for the mitochondrial DNA after Barnett was cleared:
still no hits.

Cheri Bates was NOT killed by a local boy, Morf. Tear that one up.

Speaking of evidence, both the eyewitness accounts and the forensic facts argue
very strongly that the Bates murder was premeditated, cold-blooded, and that
the victim was NOT walking around under her own power just prior to her death.

If you have read the Zodiac police reports for the Berryessa attack, you will
know that surviving victim Bryan Hartnell described Zodias voice as being
likely in his 202s, and Officer Slaight who took the call after the attack,
described Zodias voice as soundingin his early 202. Both Hartnels and
Slaighs descriptions of Zodias voice, puts Zodiac in the same age group as
people that Cheri would have known or associated with in Riverside back in
1966. I have looked one by one at every senior that graduated with Cheri from
Ramona HS in 1966, and found one guy that moved to Napa in 1968 or so, and
another who moved to Vallejo living on Webb St up until 1974(when the last Z
letter was mailed), when he moved back down to Riverside. More information and
research is required for these 2 men in my opinion.

In my opinion those 2 have already been cleared. If we start suspecting
everyone who moved from Riverside to northern California, thats a lot of
suspects to process. Any male Cheri would have associated with would have been
looked at very closely (scratches, fingerprints, hair, alibi) and eliminated.

Morfs intent here is to suggest that some local boy that Cheri Bates felt
comfortable with walked down a dark alley with her and then suddenly committed
a very hot-blooded murder. Eventually he moved to northern California and
turned into the Zodiac.

Well, thats nice, but Morf believes this because he believes The Confession
Letter. Sometime in the past decade or two, Morf read The Confession Letter and
became enamored with it. He believed in it. He took it to Vegas and married it
in an Elvis chapel. I hate to be the one to tell Morf this, but The Confession
Letter has been unfaithful to him. Its no good. It lied to him from the start.
Someone should do to Morf like Cher did to Nicholas Cage in Moonstruck.

If you want to go on believing The Confession Letter, youve got to throw out
everything else. The several friends of Cheri Bates who were inside the library
that night--youve got to ignore them when they say she wasnt there. All the
library patrons who were parked on Terracina Drive, who walked to their cars
without seeing a blonde having trouble with her carpay no attention to those
people. Cheri Batess stomach, which magically stopped digesting the supper she
ate before 5pm, beginning at roughly 6:20pm that eveningmaybe it ran out of
acid? Cheri Batess car, which was unlocked with the windows rolled down and
the keys in the ignition and her books and notepad left on the front seat, as
if shed suddenly had to leave it in that conditionshe probably just decided,
To Hell with it! Ive got to go walk down a dark alley 75 yards from here!

Morf, whatever you do, dont let go of that life raft, The Confession Letter;
otherwise, you might drown in a sea of uncertainty.

Plus, we KNOW the killer would never lie to us!

jeckyl August 22, 2012 at 10:48 am
I agree with most of what you have to say regarding Cheri and if you are
correct the trail begins with her murder. I have looked at Cheri graduating
class but havet gone into your detail. It would seem her murderer was either
a classmate or someone who lived in the neighborhood. I am interested in
writing about Cheri as a person and not just as a murder victum, do you have
any contacts that could give me some insight as to who Cheri was in real life.
Additionally I would be interested in knowing who were the two classmates of
Chers that you mentioned.

If you know anything at all about Cheri Bates as a person, you know she
couldnt have done what The Confession Letter says she did.

But again: Dont believe her friends or fianceBELIEVE HER KILLER!!!

Zodiac Revisited August 22, 2012 at 9:08 pm
ve always been troubled by RPs unwillingness to truly consider the
possibility that the Zodiac was, in fact, the man who murdered Cheri Jo Bates.
In my mind, there is an awful lot circumstantial evidence that ties the crimes
of the Zodiac to the murder of Cheri Jo Bates. Personally, I feel that the
brush off line fromthe confessio letter was partially symbolic and
partially a red herring. I doubt that the killer actually knew Cheri Jo.
Thas my $.02, FWIW&

I agree with Michael Cole here. As the Zodiologists website pointed out some
time ago, why on Earth would a killer send the police a letter that points a
finger in his own direction? If the letter suggests that the killer had a hot-
blooded motive for the murder, doesnt that suggest we look in the opposite
direction?

John Douglas, in one of his books, mentions that anytime a killer seems to
leave a clue intentionally for the police, his own instinct is to turn and look
180? from where the murderer is pointing.

morf13 August 23, 2012 at 4:21 am
@ Jeckyl, the only people that would really know Cheri would have been her
friends & Family, and they are pretty tight lipped, I guess they dot want to
open old wounds.

Cheri Batess character is pretty well-known, as attested to by friends, her
fiance, and people who saw her fairly regularly such as the staff at Sandys
Restaurant.

The circumstances were dealing with here are not subtle. Cheri was known to be
terrified of the dark and to be leery of strangers, and yet we are told she
walked willingly with guy who accosted her at her car, without first trying to
phone her friends or her dad, who could have come and picked her up.

morf13 August 23, 2012 at 4:32 am
@Mike Cole&I have to disagree with you on Chers killer not knowing her. She
apparently walked off with her killer into a dimly lit area, and it appears
that she spent quite a bit of time with him over in the shadows before she was
attacked. I just cant see an 18 year old college girl walking into a dark area
with somebody she doesnt know, and spending time with him. I think she felt
comfortable enough with him and knew him enough that she didnt think there was
anything to worry about, and again because she was 18, and most 18 year olds
wouldt be hanging out with older men, I tend to think that her killer was
around her age, and likely a schoolmate, maybe her age or a year or two older.

Morf is married to The Confession Letter account.

The problem with being married to The Confession Letter is that you have to
divorce yourself from reality first.

It truly is a shame that RPD has just written this off as no relation to the
Zodiac case, they are completely ignoring Sherwood Morrils opinion that the
Bates case letters were written by Zodiac. So how the police could simply turn
a blind eye to that is rediculous.

The police dont believe in handwriting analysis. Morf doesnt believe in
eyewitnesses, forensic facts, and character testimony about the victim.

Again, RPD doesnt buy the Zodiac link because the latents from Riverside dont
match those from Presidio Heights.

According to some sketchy details, I am pretty sure that RPD thinks that the
reason their favorite suspecs DNA didnt match the DNA from under Chers
nails, is because their POI had help when he killed Cheri, and that the DNA
belongs to this 2nd man. I really dont believe there was a 2nd man that
attacked Cheri, but RPD does.

Morf, get your DNA straight. The tissue under Cheri Batess fingernails was too
decomposed to yield a DNA profile. What RPD had was mitochondrial DNA, which
meant the hairs stuck to Cheris palm in blood contained the root. mtDNA is
different from what is found in saliva, sweat, and semen.

The wound pattern, as cited in the autopsy, is consistent with an attack by at
least two assailants. If the victim had not been restrained in some way during
the assault, its difficult to imagine how she had superficial wounds to the
torso, hands, and face, and deep slashes to the throat, particularly in a dark
alley, and particularly in a situation where she was literally fighting for her
life and had apparently torn off her killers wrist watch and pulled out his
hair.

Let me see if I can compare our two positions:

Morf believes Cheri was killed by a local boy, in a sudden rage, a boy who
later became the Zodiac. None of the particulars of his viewpoint makes any
sense, except for the Zodiacs involvement.

I believe Cheri was abducted circa 6:20pm that evening. At least two people
were involved in the abduction. After she was led away, one of the abductors
pulled the wire from the distributor, opened the door of her car, and leaned
over onto the passenger seat, leaving a greasy palm print as he reached for her
purse and student ID. He then walked into the library and charged out books on
her card to place her in the library. He brought the books back to the car and
left them on the front seat with her notepad. He then walked away, not
bothering to roll up the windows or take the keys out of the ignition. Its
useless to speculate about Cheris abduction; she may have been driven
elsewhere or may have been kept inside a van or other vehicle. She was brought
back to Terracina Drive circa 10:30pm or so, walked down the alley, probably at
gunpoint, with the second assailant making sure not to walk too close to the
other two so his footprints wouldnt be associated with theirs. The man in
front of Cheri most likely held the gun; the man behind her had the knife. When
they reached the spot, the man in front grabbed her and held her while the man
in back slit her throat from behind with several slashes. The scratches to the
face, hands, and torso were coincidental to this process. My guess is the
attack lasted just seconds and had been very carefully rehearsed by the two
men. Cheri had time to get her fingers in the way of some of the slashes, and
managed to pull the hair of one of the men, and screamed very loudly. Her
second scream would have been muffled because of her wounds, and she would have
lost consciousness very quickly.

Once she was on the ground, one of the men pulled out the Timex watch and
dropped it ten feet from the body. The missing car was on Riverside, not
Terracina, so it may have made more sense to them to make their immediate
getaway on foot and then double back to the car.

Im not sure about the two men spotted near the scene with flashlights at 1:
30am. Its conceivable that someone had notified security at the college or
police that a scream was heard, and that two plainclothes men came out and
looked around. What argues against this is that theres no record of the
incident in any of the police reports or newspaper articles, other than the
witness account.

What makes a lot less sense is that the killers would return to the scene of
the crime because one of them was missing a wrist watch. First, if youve got a
flashlight, youre going to find a black-banded watch on bright gravel thats
ten feet from the body in no time flat, especially if the beam from the
flashlight is reflected back by the watch face. Secondly, and I cannot stress
this enough, a Timex watch in 1966 was as common an item as you might find;
David Faraday had one on, as did Paul Stine, both with black bands. All the
speculation you read on Zodiac websites about that watch somehow identifying
its owner (Bob Barnett was known to have a watch just like that!) is
ludicrous. This was before DNA profiling, so DNA from sweat on the watch
couldnt be gathered. There was latex paint on the watch, but that wouldnt
have narrowed things down much.

Most of the people who post on Zodiac killer message boards were either little
kids or werent alive yet when Cheri Bates was killed. No killer in his right
mind would go back to the crime scene to retrieve a watch worn by most of the
males in the general population in 1966. And how likely is it that the killer
wouldnt have noticed his watch missing right away? If you just murdered
someone, and had planned the murder ahead of time, wouldnt your first instinct
be to check the time on your watch? In 1966, very few cars had clocks on their
dashboards.

That Timex was not accidentally left behind; the killers left it there on
purpose.

In addition, I have an FBI memo that requested the FBI compare Bates case
prints to Zodiac case prints, but I dont have any memo that shows the results.
I wonder if the prints DID match, and police are keeping it a secret, or if
they did not match, and thas why RPD is so sure Zodiac wasnt involved in
Chers case. We might not ever know. In the meantime, the two individuals that
graduated with Cheri, and then wound up living in Vallejo & Napa during the Z
murders, are of major interes to me.

Morf, you dont need a second memo. The behavior of RPD tells you the prints
didnt match. They were enthusiastic about the Zodiac link in the original
memo, and they started their investigation of Bob Barnett in earnest afterward,
and they remain adamant that the Zodiac did not kill Bates. I dont need
Riverside PD to tell me what happened with the latent comparison; I can figure
it out.

Another point that contributes to my belief in this area is the sophistication
of the ruse. This is a significant instance of something I callPremeditated
Situational Control Is very similar to the manipulation in the cases of
Lake Berryessa and Kathleen Johns (both of which were, undoubtedly, strangers).
If Cheri Jo had known her assailant, there is a strong probability that he
would have chosen a different approach. The ruse in question was specifically
designed to create trust in an unsuspecting victim and, IMO, was required
because she was a stranger. Thas my take. Hopefully, someday, wll know for
certain what the situation actually was&

Michael Cole makes a compelling point here; I was so focused on the Bates
murder that I didnt see it for myself. Although, as Pierre Bidou pointed out,
the modus operandi of the murders was technically different each time out,
there is strong evidence that the Zodiac thought out his attacks in meticulous
detail.

If the reader will review my version of the Cheri Bates murder above, and then
consider how similar the overall approach was to what happened at Lake
Berryessa, and in the Kathleen Johns incident, this Premeditated Situational
Control that Mike talks about becomes evident. For that matter, what happened
in Presidio Heights, where, as Armstrong points out in the movie, the killer
waits for the driver to put the cab in PARK before shooting him, and then gets
into the front seat and cuts off part of Paul Stines shirt so he can send
pieces of it with his letters, shows that the level of premeditation went
beyond situational control. He wasnt just trying to control his victims; he
was trying to control the entirety of the event, including how that event was
perceived afterward.

Well, thats all for now.
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]














**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Riverside ******
Just a couple points of order before I get started:

1, Instead of adding a new page each time I add material to the site, I will do
what I've done on TZMS recently and consolidate as much as I can.  I will, for
example, be working on this Riverside chapter over a period of days or weeks,
so the reader may want to come back to it periodically to check for updates.

2, Rather than discussing more general investigational approaches separately, I
will talk about them as they come up in the course of examining the individual
incidents.

Every time I look at conventional aspects of the Zodiac murders, I eventually
come to the conclusion that I haven't looked closely enough at what's there,
and I decide to go back and up the magnification.

RIV-01
On Sunday morning, October 30, 1966, at 9am, Cheri Bates and her father, Joseph
Bates, attended Catholic mass at St. Catherine's Church on Brockton.



Although nothing that happens Sunday morning is directly related to the murder,
there are several observations we can make about the victim just from this
scant information so far.

Cheri Bates and I are both baptized Catholics.  Practicing Catholics are
required to attend mass every Sunday, and they are also required to attend mass
on Holy Days.  On Sunday, October 30, 1966, Cheri Bates knew she would be
returning to St. Catherine's within a couple days.

Sunday            Monday           Tuesday
October 30      October 31     November 1
Devil's Night   Halloween      All Saint's Day

She could hardly have imagined that her next trip to St. Catherine's would be
for her own funeral.

Several investigators, including Robert Graysmith, have commented on Cheri
Bates having been murdered on the day before Halloween.  No one has pointed out
that she was murdered two days before All Saint's Day.

What does a Catholic Holy Day have to do with Cheri Bates's death?  It reminds
us that her life was ordered by the logistics of her schedule, her commitments
to family, friends, faith, employment, and education.

If you read Zodiac websites and message boards, you get the impression that the
Zodiac victims were like electrons in a subatomic world.  At any given point in
time, it was impossible to predict either their exact location or velocity
(speed plus direction).  The actions of the Zodiac victims were the ultimate
manifestation of Heisenberg's Uncertainty Principle!

The actions of real people are predictable to an extent fledgling investigators
don't seem to recognize.  I'm retired, so I don't have a set schedule, but I
have to take my cat to the veterinarian twice a week because, at 14, she's
experiencing renal failure and has to take fluid from an IV, like a human going
for dialysis.  When I go out, which I do several times a week, I tend to visit
the same stores and very often buy the same things.  The baristas at my coffee
shop often start making my favorite drink when they see me in the front window.

People are predictable.  A magazine editor whose mail I delivered for years
wrote an editorial about how she spent all her time in only 3 of Pittsburgh's
neighborhoods (Squirrel Hill, Oakland, and Shadyside).  I'm sure there are
exceptions, but I think remarkable consistency is the rule for the vast
majority.

If you look at True Crime shows on TLC or Discovery ID, you will note that,
most of the time, the perpetrator tends to be the person who stepped OUT of his
daily routine for no apparent reason.  The victims, on the other hand, were
doing what they did every day, until that routine was interrupted.

I find the random musings of Zodiac message board posters exasperating.  Maybe
Cheri Bates went out for dinner by herself, even though she'd already eaten at
her house before she left that day?  Maybe she went for a drive with friends,
even though she'd told her father she was going to the library and had been
known to do that in the past, had even been photographed studying in the
library annex?  Maybe the outgoing, pretty blonde cheerleader tiptoed into The
RCC Library and kept to herself in some out-of-the-way corner of the building
for 2 hours and 40 minutes?

The fact is, there's no telling what happened to Cheri Bates that day . . .
unless, like me, you assume that Cheri Bates was Cheri Bates, and hadn't gone
through some alien transformation like the characters in Don Siegel's Invasion
of the Body Snatchers.  The Cheri Bates you read about in Robert Graysmith's
Zodiac, and in all other accounts of her murder, particularly those on Zodiac
websites, isn't the real Cheri Bates--it's her pod-person duplicate!  Maybe
Cheri fell asleep while the pod sprouted her double, and was then replaced by a
silent sleepwalker who LOOKED like Cheri Bates, but who ACTED like someone
else?

Cheri walked off into the dark with her killer, when her friends say she'd
NEVER have done that.  Cheri left her car unlocked with the windows down and
the keys in the ignition, when her fiance says she'd NEVER walk away from it
without locking it first.  Cheri was always phoning friends and leaving notes
for people, telling them what she was going to do, but after 6:15pm that night,
no one saw her or heard from her.

Cheri Bates was predictable, and she behaved in ways that were characteristic
of her--except that evening.

The True Crime accounts got the death right but the victim wrong.

RIV-02
After mass, Cheri and her dad ate breakfast at Sandy's Restaurant in The
Hardman Center,


just around the corner from their house at 4195 Via San Jose.


My thanks to Rembrandt from Tom Voigt's site for the photos of Riverside, which
are present day, not from 1966.

Rembrandt and others on Tom's site have pointed up another aspect of Cheri
Bates's movements on that day.  The patrons and employees at Sandy's
Restaurant, which has now been closed for over a decade, still remembered Cheri
Bates and the aftermath of her murder.  The Cheri Bates murder was the biggest
story in Riverside, and remains the most famous homicide in the city's
history.  It was even recalled that "Bob Barnett", who was the local suspect in
the murder until he was cleared by a DNA mismatch, had also been at Sandy's
that morning.

Amateur investigators have speculated that Cheri may have gone driving with
friends that evening, or may have eaten at a diner similar to Sandy's, thus
explaining how she managed not to be seen by anyone at the library.

The problem is, it doesn't explain how the friends haven't come forward, or how
the people at the restaurant didn't remember seeing her.  The ironic thing is,
her killer DID come forward with his own version of events, in The Confession
Letter.  So why wouldn't those who honestly wanted her murder solved come
forward as well?

It's because no one saw her.

If Cheri Bates had been out and about that evening, people would have reported
seeing her, just as they saw her in Sandy's that morning.  The most likely
explanation for no one reporting seeing her is that no one saw her.

The absence of witnesses who saw Cheri Bates that evening is all the more
striking when one realizes the notoriety of her murder and the dearth of
reports of her whereabouts.  People would not have been reluctant to volunteer
whatever they might have seen that night, when the police were asking on the
front page of the paper for witnesses to come forward with anything they had.

Cheri Bates was seen at church, she was seen at Sandy's, she was seen outside
the library that afternoon, and she was seen driving by a couple of witnesses,
the latter of whom didn't know who she was, but reported seeing someone who fit
her description in an alley about a block from RCC.

If no one reported seeing her after that incident, it's because they didn't see
her.

If they didn't see her, it's because she wasn't there.

Here's something else to think about:

When Cheri and her dad walked into Sandy's Restaurant that morning, they sat
down in a booth across from a woman who had already ordered food and was
waiting for her order.  Cheri and her dad placed their own orders, their
waitress came back with the food, Cheri and her dad ate, paid for their meal,
and left the restaurant all while the woman sitting across from them waited for
her own order to arrive.

Throughout that time while the woman waited for her order, which I assume was a
period of 20 minutes or so, Cheri Bates teased her about having to wait for her
food.  As far as I know, Cheri had never met the woman before, but Cheri Bates
was an extremely outgoing person and confident enough in her social skills that
she felt comfortable teasing someone she'd just met about her minor misfortune.

This is the same Cheri Bates who, if we are to believe the true crime
narratives offered by people like Robert Graysmith and Michael Butterfield,
walked into The RCC Library at approximately 6:20PM that Sunday evening, stayed
inside for 2 hours and 40 minutes, and then walked out as the library closed
circa 9PM . . . and didn't speak to a single person in all that time.  

RIV-03
At 10am, Joseph Bates left the house to spend the day at the beach.  The
standard timelines of that day don't elaborate on this raw fact, but if you
Google "Riverside Nearest Beach", you get, among other links:

The closest beach to the city of Riverside in California State is probably
Newport, providing that you travel on the sign-posted roads. Newport Beach can
be accessed by taking the 91 West route out of Riverside until you reach the 55
South, which takes you direct to your destination. The beach offers a broad
range of leisure activities for visitors, including surfing, body boarding,
sandcastle building and hiking. For families with young children and couples on
romantic getaways alike, Newport is the perfect beach location with its vast
selection of bars and eateries - including the popular Balboa Bar and Newport
Harbor Caf?.

Alternatively, you can visit Huntington's Beach from Riverside. By car, this is
a little further away than Newport, but only by ten minutes driving -
providing, of course, that the traffic leading out of Riverside is free of
congestion and smooth-running. Huntington's Beach is popular with dog owners
because of its stretch of coastline that's dedicated to dogs so that they can
stretch their legs on California's golden sands. However, this isn't to say
that humans can't also enjoy Huntington's Beach, because there are plenty of
other activities for you to enjoy there as well as your canine companion. These
include water sports, fishing, adventure touring, paddling in the well-
maintained sea and kite flying. There's also access to horseback rides over the
sands at night, with surfing and body boarding tuition classes for beginners
available on request.

Keep in mind that the information here is circa 2012 and not 1966, but we can
safely assume that the driving distances haven't changed too much.  Don't
laugh--traffic congestion in various large cities, including Los Angeles and
Houston, have significantly impacted travel times in and out of those cities in
the past 50 years or so.  In any case, the driving time to Newport Beach from
Riverside would have been roughly an hour, and to Huntington Beach about an
hour and ten minutes.

As far as I'm aware, no one has commented on the living arrangement of Joseph
Bates and his daughter in the 45+ years since her murder, despite the hundreds
of posts on Zodiac message boards in the past 14 years or so.

Joseph Bates leaves his house at 4195 Via San Jose at 10am that Sunday morning
to spend the day at the beach.  The drive to Newport Beach would take about an
hour, which means he would arrive there around 11am.  We also know that Joseph
arrived back at his house just after 5pm that evening, which means he'd have
left Newport around 4pm.

11am-4pm  Joseph Bates is at Newport Beach

He may, of course, have gone to Huntington Beach instead.  In any case, we now
know that Joseph spent about two hours driving back and forth to the beach, and
he spent about five hours AT the beach.  Because it was the end of October, and
it started getting dark just after 6pm, we can speculate that Joseph left the
beach because the sun was starting to fade and in anticipation of the long
drive back to Riverside.

We can also speculate that he anticipated getting home in time to make dinner
for his daughter.  The division of labor in the household, according to
newspaper accounts, was that Joseph did the cooking and Cheri washed the
dishes.  If Joseph left the beach at 4pm in anticipation of an hour's drive,
which would then have him arriving home at 5pm, he may have intended to cook
dinner then.  But when he arrived home, he found Cheri's note taped to the
refrigerator door (further evidence that they may have tentatively agreed to
have dinner together when he got home around 5pm), and then went back out
himself, after taking a phone call from Cheri's friend Stephanie and leaving
his own note taped to the refrigerator door.

Cheri Bates and her father were close.  They lived together in a small house,
and Cheri's note to her dad, and the note he left for her on his brief return,
suggests strongly that they were in the habit of telling each other what they
were doing and where they were going.  I also suspect that, since they did live
in a small house, they also took care to give each other sufficient space to
breathe.  If Cheri planned on studying for her term paper that day, Joseph
might then take the opportunity to spend the day at the beach and be out of her
way.

Joseph's being out of the way might explain something else about Cheri's
movements that morning and afternoon.

RIV-04
What did Cheri Bates do between 10am, when her father left for the beach, and
3pm, when she called Stephanie?

We know Cheri made her initial call to her friend Stephanie at 3pm that
afternoon, so . . . what did she do between 10am and 3pm?  She wasn't seen
anywhere and she wasn't heard from for those five hours, so where was she and
what was she doing?  Most likely, she was inside her house.

That Cheri didn't discover that her bibliography was missing until she called
her friend Donna at 5:30pm strongly suggests that she probably didn't go
through her school paperwork at the house, and the absence of reports of other
phone calls suggests that she didn't call anyone.

Maybe she did housework?  We know that, in addition to her school work, Cheri
had two part-time jobs, one as a clerk/typist at RCC, and the other as a teller
at a local bank, plus she was a cheerleader for RCC, so she would not have had
a lot of time to do cleaning and laundry at her house.  In addition, we know
she'd spent the previous weekend in San Francisco seeing her fiance and meeting
his parents.  So the most logical assumption we can make is that she spent
those five hours, between 10am and 3pm, putzing around the house cleaning and
doing other chores, and this is probably what she told her dad she was going to
do while he spent the day at the beach.

It's entirely possible that her dad suggested at some point that she go to
Newport Beach with him, and that Cheri declined because this was her chance to
catch up on work around the house.

I would suggest that the movements of both Joseph Bates that morning and Cheri
Bates late that afternoon are consistent with the desire to stay out of each
other's way, and shows the level of sensitivity that one would expect of a
father and daughter who were very close.  Joseph goes to the beach so he's not
in Cheri's way as she does housework, OR Cheri opts to stay at the house to
catch up on housework while her dad (who is, after all, single) has fun at the
beach.  Cheri decides to work on her term paper that evening at The RCC
Library, so when her dad comes home he can watch TV if he wants, and she does
housework during the day when she's alone so doing it later doesn't disturb
him.  If you're sharing a small house with someone, you want to do the
vacuuming when the other person is out, if possible.

Joseph Bates had a background in the defense industry; he was a skilled
technician, and his daughter was an honor student who was intelligent,
outgoing, and clearly responsible.  Her employment record speaks to her
trustworthiness.  One would expect their living arrangements and time
management to be orderly and well thought-out, and that's the impression their
movements on that day give us.

RIV-05
What did Cheri Bates do between 3pm, the time of her initial call to her friend
Stephanie, and 3:45pm, when she called her back?

Before we consider that question, lets backtrack for just a moment.

Remember what I said at the beginning of this chapter?

"Every time I look at conventional aspects of the Zodiac murders, I eventually
come to the conclusion that I haven't looked closely enough at what's there,
and I decide to go back and UP the magnification.

For the past 14 years, message board posters have looked at the raw facts of
the Zodiac investigation and speculated randomly about this or that detail. The
best conversations along these lines were to be found on Tom Voigts original
archived message board, which is a reflection of the all-star lineup to be
found there (though the very best Zodiac researcher, Ray Grant, chose NOT to
post there for reasons of his own).

But even Toms original board failed to take a systematic approach to the
timeline. They tended, instead, to focus on a particular aspect of the murders,
such as what specific weapon the Zodiac might have used at Lake Herman Road. My
own speculations about the contents of Cheri Batess stomach were prompted by a
comment by William Baker on Toms board on Friday, June 27, 2003 - 10:08 am:

Based on whatever I have gained through osmosis regarding forensic pathology
(as a lay person working closely with board-certified forensic pathologists,
along with voracious reading on the subject, over many years, it's surprising
how much one can learn), there is one point I wanted to make regarding the
digestion of stomach contents in homicide victims.

While it is almost certainly not a significant factor in the Bates killing,
given what is known about the time line and other circumstances that evening,
it is interesting to note that when a person is subjected to a life-threatening
situation over an extended period of time (as in cases where there is an
abduction with a persistent threat of death staring them in the face), the
digestive process is retarded, if not halted altogether, while the system
prioritizes and rechannels its emphasis to the flight-or-fight areas of the
body.

This has been the case when such murder victims are found to have undigested
food in their stomachs, even beyond the 4-6 hours that it normally takes to
empty after they ingested their last known meal. Again, there's no indication
that Bates was subjected to any more than a blitz-style attack, unexpected and
sudden, with no appreciable period of time for this digestive retardation to
come into play. But I thought I'd mention it.

I bring this up because it demonstrates how even a very valuable insight can be
lost when theres no context to put it in. William Baker was, of course, wrong
about the circumstances. What SEEMED to be known about the time line of Cheri
Batess murder back in 2003 (the narrative put forth in The Confession Letter,
for example) turns out to be impossible; things could not possibly have
happened that way. Therefore, the undigested food found in the victims stomach
is EXTREMELY significant.

Mind you, the stomach contents dont stand alone in my analysis; they simply
back up what Im saying elsewhere.

And what Im saying, for the most part, is that CONTEXT IS EVERYTHING.

If I appear to be doing micro-analysis at times where it isnt called for,
thats why.

I want, in constructing this timeline, to nail down everything that can be
nailed down. Because if I dont, dedicated Zodiac researchers will pick up what
ISNT nailed down and run with it.

Waiif Cheri Bates had roast beef in her stomach when they did her autopsy,
maybe she went out and ate beef stew in a diner that night?

Maybe. Except she had roast beef and vegetables for supper back at her house
between 4pm and 5pm that afternoon. So we have to assume that the roast beef
and vegetables found in her stomach during her autopsy was the same roast beef
and vegetables she ate at her house before 5pm . . . in the absence of evidence
to the contrary.

And there IS no evidence to the contrary. No one at any eating establishment
reported seeing Cheri Bates that evening (even though people at Sandys
Restaurant that morning remembered seeing her and even remembered what she
did), and everything Cheri said to anyone (Stephanie, Donna, her dad) indicated
her intention to spend the evening at the library.

It is my contention that, in pursuing this course of connecting the dots of
Cheri Batess last day, and NOT being content with just regurgitating the raw
facts without processing them, we will not only arrive at the truth, but also
avoid most of the more obvious false steps.

So . . . what did Cheri Bates do between that first call to her friend
Stephanie at 3pm and the second call at 3:45pm?

The logical answer is that she put the phone down, made a mental note to call
again in 45 minutes, and then began preliminary preparations for going to the
library, perhaps by taking a shower (after having spent five hours doing
housework), changing clothes, and putting on makeup.

Remember, Cheri likely did NOT go through her course paperwork, since she
didnt discover that the term paper bibliography was missing until 5:30pm, when
she called Donna on the phone. And she probably did NOT go back to doing
housework, since calling Stephanie would likely have been something shed do
AFTER finishing her housework, and would represent a transition toward spending
the evening working on her term paper. People like Cheri Bates, who have many
ongoing activities in their lives (school, cheerleading, two part-time jobs, a
fianc? in San Francisco, and keeping house with her dad) are able to do all
those things by focusing on one task at a time.

So the most likely answer to the question is that Cheri began preparations for
the evening ahead by showering/changing clothes/putting on makeup, or other
transitional tasks, and that those activities were "bookended" by the phone
calls at 3pm and 3:45pm.

RIV-06
Cheri Bates called her friend Stephanie at 3:45pm and asked if she wanted to go
to the library with her that afternoon. Stephanie declined.

Just to quickly deal with a possible objection: obviously, theres no way of
knowing that Cheri Bates didnt just sit down at her kitchen table that Sunday
morning, and spend the next five hours reading the Sunday paper. She may have
done just that. Were constructing a timeline of likely events here, not trying
to establish facts that are inherently unknowable. We will never know EXACTLY
what Cheri Bates did the last day of her life. If I say that doing housework
for five hours was a likely activity for her, considering the circumstances of
her life at that point, Im making a choice. Much of what happened to Cheri
Bates that day CAN be established with reasonable certainty. The five hour gap
between 10am and 3pm is the longest period of uncertainty within that day, but
even there we can make assumptions about what Cheri most likely did, especially
since we know what she probably DIDNT do (for example, she probably DIDNT
look at her course paperwork, since her bibliography was missing and she didnt
mention that to Stephanie).

A further advantage in establishing likely activities during gaps is that it
helps fill in the picture of that day; what she did prior to leaving the house
bears witness to her movements away from the house and vice-versa. If we can
establish likely activities during the times when she was alone, they may
better explain the glimpses we catch of her later on. Conversely, if we dont
make some reasonable assumptions about what she was doing earlier, we may make
all sorts of UNlikely suppositions about what happened later (such as that she
went to a diner at some point, which doesnt make sense given what she said to
her friends and her father).

Lets quickly review that day as we have it so far:


1. Cheri Bates and her father went to Catholic mass at St. Catherins at 9am.

2. After mass, Cheri and her dad ate breakfast at Sandy's Restaurant in The
Hardman Center.

3. At 10am, Joseph Bates left the house to spend the day at the beach, probably
Newport.

4. Between 10am and 3pm, Cheri most likely did housework.

5. At 3pm, Cheri called Stephanie. Getting no answer, she likely changed and
got ready to leave.


Cheri must have known that The RCC Library closed for a supper break between
5pm and 6pm. So if she called Stephanie initially around 3pm, that suggests the
possibility that she wanted to, or was at least open to, getting herself to the
library PRIOR to its closing. Since the drive to the library was 10-15 minutes,
that might have given Cheri something like an hour and a half at the library
that afternoon:


3pm: Call Stephanie, arrange to meet at the library by 3:30pm or so.

3pm-3:15pm: Freshen up quickly, change clothes, grab her class paperwork.

3:15pm-3:30pm: Drive to The RCC Library


As I said, this would give Cheri about an hour-and-a-half at the library that
afternoon, as opposed to the 2 hours and 40 minutes she would have had if shed
arrived at the library that evening.

Granted, an hour-and-a-half is probably stretching it, but the possibility of
her driving to the library earlier illustrates two things: 1, Cheri, who was an
extremely social person, wanted to go to the library WITH Stephanie if
possiblethis further underscores how unlikely it was that Cheri could be in
The RCC Library for 2 hours and 40 minutes that night without talking to
anyone; and 2, Cheri wanted to get back home shortly after 5pm so she could
have dinner with her dad.

It seems unlikely that her dad would have gone to the beach that day without
suggesting to Cheri when he would probably come homearound 5pm or so. It seems
reasonable to assume that Cheri would thus be prepared to spend just over an
hour at the library with her friend that afternoon and then drive home in time
to have supper with her father. Thats the sort of person Cheri was, and that
still left open the possibility of her returning to the library that evening
after having dinner with her dad.

But when Cheri finally made the connection with Stephanie, it was already 3:
45pm, which, even if she had showered, changed clothes, and gotten ready to
leave in between the calls, would have left her less than an hour to spend at
the library after she drove there.

And Stephanie declined the invitation.

So when Cheri put the phone down, shed have considered TWO possibilities:


1, drive to the library, spend less than an hour inside, then drive back home
to have dinner; or

2, make dinner, eat dinner, and then leave the house for the library, where she
could go through her course paperwork outside while waiting for the library to
reopen at 6pm.


We know, from various witness accounts, that (2) is the choice Cheri made.


It was revealed that Cheri Jo had cooked roast beef Sunday afternoon and had
eaten before leaving her home. Inside Detective Magazine, January 1969

http://www.zodiackiller.com/InsideDetective6.html


Im citing a detail here from the Inside Detective Magazine edition of January
1969, but the article contains at least one glaring inconsistency. On page 5,
it has the Mexican-American student seeing Cheri Bates outside the library at
5:30pm; on page 7, it has Cheri Bates, or someone dressed just like her,
arriving outside the library at 5:40pm and then going inside at 6pm and
charging out the books found inside her car. As I will demonstrate when I get
to that point, Cheri Bates could not possibly have charged books out at 6pm
that evening, unless were willing to throw out two witnesses who saw her
driving TOWARD the library after 6pm, and also question the account of the
Mexican-American student who saw her at 5:30pm.

I think it much more likely that Riverside PD could simply not account for
Cheri Batess whereabouts after 6:15pm that night, and therefore assumed that,
since charged-out books were found on the front seat of her car, she must have
hurried inside when the library reopened at 6pm and charged the books out at
that time, and then immediately left the library. Thus the wording on page 7:
It has been determined that . . .

The 5:40pm-6pm timeline had been determined by police because, as far as
Riverside PD was concerned, they had eliminated every other possibility;
unfortunately, THAT possibility is also impossible . . . as we shall see
momentarily.

It was revealed that Cheri Jo had cooked roast beef Sunday afternoon and had
eaten before leaving her home. Inside Detective Magazine, January 1969

Apparently Joseph Bates returned home shortly after 5pm that evening and found
dishes in the sink and/or leftovers in the refrigerator. The Inside Detective
article cites Riverside Police Department personnel as its primary source,
thus, we can assume this is information they got from Cheris dad.

The only bit of information we have that might be in conflict with this
supposition is the note Cheri left taped to the refrigerator prior to leaving
the house: DADWENT TO RCC LIBRARY.

The note makes no mention of her having prepared supper; perhaps that was
simply self-evident, and its possible that Cheri had already told her dad that
morning that she would probably cook supper herself. That she felt she had to
leave the note suggests that she DIDNT tell her dad that morning that she was
going to the library that evening. Or perhaps she did mention it as a
possibility, and the note was simply confirmation of where she was headed.

But wouldnt cooking dinner herself have represented a break from what her dad
would expect, since the division of labor in the household was that Joseph
cooked and Cheri washed dishes?

In considering questions such as this, I have a considerable advantage over
other Zodiac researchers, most of whom are a generation or so younger than I am
and were very young children when the Zodiac crimes took place. Why, Mike
Butterfield wasnt even conceived yet when Cheri Bates was murdered! Yet
another aspect of the crime that leads us to reflect, If only we could go back
and somehow prevent some things from happening . . .

Cheri Bates was born on February 4, 1948; I was born on April 29, 1951. She
died when she was 18 ? and I was 15 ?.

In 1966, there were no microwaves, no induction cooktops, no Jet Stream ovens.

If you wanted to have roast beef and vegetables for supper, the cooking time
was a bit longer than it might be today. For starters, most supermarkets
werent open on Sunday in 1966, so chances are both the roast beef and
vegetables were frozen prior to preparation. We can assume that Cheri had the
foresight to start thawing the meat earlier in the day, and even in 1966 making
vegetables would have come down to taking a small rectangular package out of
the freezer, putting the contents in a pot with a lid on, and heating for 10
minutes or so, but the meat would have taken longer.

She would have put the roast in the oven just after talking to Stephanie, and
assuming average cooking times in a conventional oven, could have expected to
have supper ready by 4:30pm or so. If she doesnt start making supper around
4pm, and instead waits for her dad to come home sometime after 5pm, which would
probably have been closer to their usual supper time, now shes very likely
cutting into her study time that evening, since its unlikely her dad could
cook dinner and give Cheri time to get to the library by the time it reopened
at 6pm. Someone as organized as Cheri Bates would probably not want to wait
that long to get to the library; she would likely have preferred to have a
chunk of time to work on her term paper.

If Cheri Bates cooked roast beef between 4pm and 4:30pm that Sunday, there
would have been leftovers in the fridge, assuming she didnt eat an entire
roast herself for supper. In 1966, people typically would cook a roast in the
oven and then, if the entire roast wasnt consumed by a family at suppertime,
the remains of the roast would be put in a container and either eaten as
leftovers or possibly used for sandwiches.

One last possibility along these lines is that what Cheri cooked on Sunday
afternoon was already leftovers that shed taken from a container in the
refrigerator. Just going by my own experience, people in 1966 would be more
likely to have roast beef for Sunday supper; Saturday night fare for the middle
class in the 1960s would be hot dogs or something less of a sit-down dinner
meal. Keep in mind that Catholics like Cheri and myself would always have fish
on Fridaysin my house it was usually fish sticks with spaghetti, and on
Saturdays wed have hot dogs and beans.

In any case, Cheri Bates had roast beef and vegetables for supper, which she
ate between 4:30pm-5pm. Whether this was apparent to Joseph because Cheri left
the dishes in the sink, or because she left a container full of leftovers in
the fridge, or both, is secondary.

Since we know Joseph Bates returned home just after 5pm, which was just after
Cheri left, and since we know he read the note taped to the refrigerator, took
a call from Stephanie, and then left a note of his own (probably also taped to
the refrigerator) and then went back out again . . . we can assume Joseph Bates
was back inside the house about 10-15 minutes, if that.

5pm-5:15pm Joseph Bates returns home, reads the note, takes a call, leaves a
note of his own, and then goes back out again.

Weve gotten ahead of ourselves here. Lets go back and connect the dots of the
timeline.

RV-07
Cheri Bates cooked roast beef and vegetables for herself between 4pm and 4:
30pm.

RV-09
Cheri Bates ate the roast beef and vegetables shed prepared between 4:30pm and
5pm.

If youre paying attention, you will notice that theres a gap between those
two items!

Heres what belongs in the gap:

RV-08
Friends of Cheri Bates walked by her house at 4:30pm and noticed her car parked
outside.

At about 4:30pm that afternoon, friends of Cheri Bates walked past her house
and noticed that her lime green VW Beetle was parked outside. This sighting
both underscores Cheri's popularity and her visibility. People LIKED Cheri
Bates, but more important for our examination of her last day, they NOTICED her
and things about her, such as her car being parked outside her house that
afternoon.

Does everyone see the dichotomy here?

Cheri Bates goes to church that morning and has breakfast in Sandys
Restaurant. People from the restaurant recall her being there that morning and
teasing the woman who was waiting for her order. Then she goes home and is by
herself inside her house for the next 7 hours . . . and people walking by are
STILL aware of her presence though no one actually sees her.

BUT . . . the Graysmith/Butterfield timeline of Cheris last day has her
walking into The RCC Library circa 6:20pm and not being noticed by anyone for 2
hours and 40 minutes, followed by another 1 hour and 30 minutes outside in
front of the library. After 6:15pm that night, Cheri Bates was not seen or
heard from by anyone, and did not speak to anyone for 4 hours and 15 minutes
until the time of her murder at 10:30pm.

Maybe there are murder victims who were out and about under their own power for
4+ hours prior to their murders who managed to remain silent and unnoticed
during that entire time, despite being in the physical midst of dozens of
potential witnesses.

Cheri Bates is not one of those victims.

The Cheri Bates that her friends and acquaintances knew and experienced, even
on that last day of her life, would NOT have remained silent and unnoticed for
4+ hours. It is simply not possible.

At the risk of being accused of beating a dead horse, let me review our
progress to this point:


1. Cheri Bates and her father went to Catholic mass at St. Catherins at 9am.

This tells us that Cheri had a personal schedule; her life was planned and
thought-out in advance.


2. After mass, Cheri and her dad ate breakfast at Sandy's Restaurant in The
Hardman Center.

Cheri teased a fellow diner because she hadn't received her order; Cheri Bates
was playful and outgoing.


3. At 10am, Joseph Bates left the house to spend the day at the beach, probably
Newport.

Again, this is consistent with two people living in a small house keeping out
of each other's way.


4. Between 10am and 3pm, Cheri most likely did housework.

Cheri's weekdays would have been busy, and Saturday would have been the logical
time for things like cheerleading practice or working at the bank in the
morning.  When I was a student in parochial school, we traveled to St. Mary's
Seminary once a year, in the fall, and I was surprised to find out from one of
the students that the "weekend" at St. Mary's was actually Thursday/Sunday, NOT
Saturday/Sunday, because splitting the "off" days broke up the week more. 
Cheri Bates had a full class schedule, two part-time jobs, cheerleading, and a
fiance she had just visited the previous weekend.  It's reasonable to assume
she would use that Saturday to take it easy and relax, and schedule things like
housework and her term paper for Sunday.


5. At 3pm, Cheri called Stephanie. Getting no answer, she likely showered,
changed, and got ready to leave.

Again, the logical sequence would be: a), her dad leaves for the beach; b), she
does laundry, vacuuming, cleaning, and other housework between 10am and 3pm,
and, having finished those chores, c), she calls Stephanie at 3pm.  Not getting
an answer, she showers, changes clothes, and puts on makeup if she's wearing
any that evening.


6. She calls Stephanie again at 3:45pm and asks if she wants to go to the
library.  Stephanie declines.

Cheri clearly chose to prepare and eat supper and then spend the evening at the
library.


7. Friends passing her house at 4:30pm notice Cheri's car parked outside.

This puts Cheri in her house at 4:30pm.  Since we know that Cheri was out and
about under her own power up until 6:15pm, the presence of her car outside her
house means she was inside her house at 4:30pm.

This means that Cheri left her house sometime between 4:30pm, when her friends
saw her car, and 5pm, when her dad returned home from the beach.


8. Cheri Bates left her house for The RCC Library between 4:30pm and 5pm that
Sunday.

We have to assume that Cheri Bates left her house more toward 5pm than 4:30pm,
for several reasons:

a), if she cooked and ate supper between 4pm and 5pm, we would expect that to
take a bit longer in 1966 than it might today, thus more toward 5pm;

b), if she had left the house just after 4:30pm, she would have arrived at The
RCC Library before 5pm, since the driving time between her house and The RCC
Library was 10-15 minutes.  The timeline would look like this:

Leave 4:30pm, arrive at The RCC Library no later than 4:45pm.

Leave 4:35pm, arrive at The RCC Library no later than 4:50pm.

Leave 4:40pm, arrive at The RCC Library no later than 4:55pm.

Granted, Cheri would not have had much time to do anything in the library in
the scant minutes before it closed for supper at 5pm.  However, two things
WOULD have been possible:

1, Someone would see her; and

2, She could--very hastily, I'll admit--charge books out.

Well, we know that no one saw her at the library before it closed at 5pm.

Police have insisted that Cheri Bates must have charged out books that evening,
which is to say, after it reopened at 6pm.

If the library used an "evening" card to charge out Cheri's books, this would
lead Riverside PD to the conclusion it made.

In 1966, most libraries used a system where a card identifying the book, a card
identifying the person borrowing it, and a card identifying the date (and
possibly the time in general terms--RCC may have used a MORNING, AFTERNOON, and
EVENING card with the specific date) were all photographed together.  A
librarian charging out a stack of books would only need to change the card
identifying the book for each charge-out record to be made.

Riverside PD has never suggested that Cheri Bates might have charged out books
before 5pm.

Therefore, we should probably assume that the books found on the front seat of
her car were charged-out with a card indicating it was done during the EVENING
session.

It is, of course, conceivable that Cheri arrived just prior to the library
closing, which would have corresponded to leaving the house circa 4:45pm or
so.  This seems unlikely.  The library entrance figured to be most crowded at
5pm, thus Cheri Bates would most likely be seen by other people around that
time, if she was waiting outside the building.  But she wasn't seen by anyone
at 5pm.

I suspect the area outside the library was relatively deserted by 5:10pm or so,
and Cheri Bates wasn't seen outside the library until 5:30pm, so the most
likely time for her to have left her house would have been just prior to 5pm.

In other words, Cheri Bates and her father just missed each other at the house,
probably by 5-10 minutes.  I suspect that Cheri left her house circa 4:55pm-
5pm, and her father arrived home circa 5:05pm-5:10pm.

At just after 5pm that evening, Cheri Bates is driving toward The RCC Library
for the first time that day.

Joseph Bates is driving toward their house and is within just a few minutes of
reaching it.

The RCC Library has closed for the supper break between 5pm and 6pm.

Cheri Bates has an hour and fifteen minutes of freedom left to her.  If eyes
are watching her, prepared to make a move, Cheri is, at the moment, too
distracted to notice them.


RV-10
At just after 5pm that evening, Cheri Bates is driving toward The RCC Library
for the first time that day.

I'm writing this on the morning of Thursday, August 16, 2012.  Since Mike
Kelleher has expressed curiosity, on ZodiacRevisited.com, as to where ZKT is
going, let's pretend we're in the passenger seat of Cheri Bates's lime green VW
as she drives toward The RCC Library that Sunday afternoon, just after 5pm, and
think about where this process is headed.

I am, to begin with, retracing my steps on that Sunday for at least the third
time, having not been satisfied with the level of detail I'd attained on my
first two trips through.  That's why I've had earlier timelines up on other
websites and taken them down.  I'll be re-posting that material shortly, but I
wanted to go back to the beginning and see if I'd missed anything on my first
couple of trips.

The typical thread on a Zodiac message board, and I'm talking about ALL of them
here--Tom's site, Mike's site, Morf's site--begins with citing some raw fact
from a Zodiac event and then various posters weighing in on what that angle
MIGHT mean.  If we go by when Tom's site originally went up on The Internet,
it's now been 14 years of beer & pretzel discussions resulting in absolutely NO
conclusions.

This is not the way to conduct an inquiry into ANYTHING, much less the most
notorious unsolved serial murder case of the 20th century.

I want the reader to participate in a brief experiment with me.

I want you to stand up in the middle of the room you're in right now.  You can
just read what I'm saying if you want to, and imagine what I tell you to do,
but you'll understand what I'm suggesting only if you actually get up and do
what I tell you to do.

Stand up in the middle of the room.  In front of you is North, to your right is
East, behind you is South, and to your left is West.  So go ahead and make a
quarter-turn to the right and face East.  Another quarter-turn, and face
South.  Another quarter-turn, and face West.  Now come back to face North.

The Chinese have a saying: A journey of a thousand miles must begin with a
single step.

Everything that happened to the Zodiac victims happened one moment at a time,
and everything began with where they were to begin with.  Whatever next
movement you make, in whatever direction, will begin with where you are now,
and that was true of Cheri Bates and all the other Zodiac victims.

It may be helpful to think of a timeline as a series of stepping stones in a
bubbling stream.  The best way to move between the stones is to first get your
footing securely on the stone under your feet.  Once you have a good feel for
where you are, you can move to the next stone with much greater confidence and
less fear that you'll end up in the water.

Zodiac message board posters insist on trying to think several steps ahead,
when they haven't established a logical sequence for the movements of the
victims, beginning with where they started.  More often than not, they
speculate about the victims without taking into account who the victims were. 
That's why most of their speculations are all wet.

Perhaps there are 18-year-old women in the world who could walk into a
community college library and not speak to anyone for 2 hours and 40 minutes,
and not be seen by anyone, and then stand out in front of the building for 1
hour and 30 minutes after it closed, and not be noticed by anyone.  I doubt it,
but perhaps there are teenagers who fade into the backdrop in the midst of
dozens of witnesses.

But if there are such young women, Cheri Bates would not have been one of them.

Cheri Bates could not spend 20 minutes in a diner that morning without being
noticed and causing a stir and interacting with a woman she didn't even know,
and being remembered by people and staff at the diner.

It is simply impossible to believe she could have been in the library that
night without people recalling her.

Cheri Bates ate roast beef and vegetables before leaving her house at 5pm. 
Four ounces of roast beef and vegetables were found in her stomach during the
same autopsy that estimated her death as having taken place at 10:30pm, which
coincided with earwitness reports of screams heard in the area.

5 hours and 30 minutes.

An 18-year-old cheerleader eats supper, then spends the evening doing research
at the library, and 5 hours and 30 minutes later, when she's murdered, still
has 4 ounces of that supper in her stomach.   

I'm 61 years old, having recently recovered from a long bout with gastritis,
and my digestive process is a lot faster than that.

Cheri Bates could not possibly still have food in her stomach when she was
murdered, unless something extremely intense happened to her to slow that
process down dramatically.

The lack of eyewitness accounts after Cheri was last seen at 6:15pm, and the
presence of food in her stomach many hours after it should have been empty,
tells us that Cheri must have been abducted.

If the account given in The Confession Letter were true, Cheri Bates should
have been seen and heard from by MANY witnesses both inside and outside the
library, leading up to the attack in the alley, and her stomach should have
been empty when she was autopsied.  Never mind that her car was left in a
condition Cheri Bates would never have left it in, if she'd been moving around
under her own power, and never mind that Cheri Bates would NEVER walk down a
pitch dark alley with anyone, much less a stranger.

I'm getting ahead of myself here.  I will return to the timeline sequence in a
moment, and we'll be sitting back in the passenger seat of Cheri's VW as it
pulls up outside The RCC Library between 5:10pm and 5:15pm that Sunday, and we
will move forward a moment at a time from there.

As Mike Kelleher has suggested recently, I am working out the details as I go
along.  At each point in the narrative, as I look around, new things are
occurring to me.  I will eventually post an article called Riverside Timeline,
which will simplify the sequence.  I will then do an article called Lake Herman
Road, and after I've analyzed what happened there, I will post an article
called Lake Herman Road Timeline, and so on.

In other words, I will attempt to explore every realistic possibility and then,
when I've determined which sequence makes the most sense to me, post an article
which connects those dots.

In other words, instead of just citing raw facts and speculating randomly, I
will process information, establish the most realistic narrative sequence based
on what the witnesses say and how the victims were known to behave, and . . .
drum roll . . . come to CONCLUSIONS.

These crimes took place more than 4 decades ago.

Are Zodiac websites EVER going to say, "This is what we think happened."?

Before I drop this train of thought and move on, I do want to cite the single
example of what I've been suggesting here, from the Zodiologists website.  By
the way, if anyone knows who specifically is behind that site, I'm curious to
know, since I'm plugging them here:

Zodiologists on The Confession Letter

I don't endorse every aspect of their conclusion here, but I commend their
approach.  Bravo!

More to come momentarily.





Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]














**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Riverside Revisited ******
I'm naming this article "Riverside Revisited" for Michael Cole's
ZodiacRevisited.com website.  I get the impression Mike Kelleher decided to
shut down ZodiacKillerCase.com and combine his own Zodiac research with that of
Michael Cole and others in an effort to increase the signal and reduce the
noise coming from the Zodiac online community.  When you consider how little
daylight has been shining on all those separate spinning sidereal worlds of
late, pooling our resources is probably a good idea.

Now that I have so much time on my hands, I've been going through papers up in
my attic (which is partly why I've been posting pages from my books on TZMS),
and found a sheaf of material on Riverside that was downloaded from the
Fortunecity.com website in March 2003.  I wasn't personally on The Internet
very often until 2007 or so, and didn't have a connection at my house until a
couple years ago.  I did occasionally go online at the Carnegie Library here in
Pittsburgh, which is how I discovered Tom's site, and would occasionally
download pages from the original archived message board circa 2000 or so.

In any case, I was surprised there was so much material that I didn't recall in
these downloaded pages from 9 1/2 years ago, none of which appears to be
available in any form online at the moment.

Some of the new material is in conflict with aspects of my timeline as
presented so far, which is fine, since I've always considered what I've done on
the website to be a work in progress.  I can't decide what I think about Cheri
Bates's murder until I've thought about it first.  In the course of checking to
see if this material is available online today, I came across even more
material, most of which is a lot more dubious and speculative, on one of the
Zodiac message boards.  The March 2003 downloads are a kind of time capsule
representing facts and eyewitness accounts that may have been overlooked a
decade ago because the Bates murder itself was not taken seriously as a Zodiac
event.

March 2003



My information is that Cheri was a cheerleader both at Ramona High School and
at RCC; perhaps she skipped a year to make sure she was academically ready for
the move to college?



The Naval Ordnance Laboratory where Joseph worked was also called "Corona", and
was apparently located in or near Corona Del Mar, about which more later.

"The situation at home demanded that Cheri and her father get along."  Cheri's
parents were separated, her brother was in the Navy, and father and daughter
shared a house that was, as far as I can tell from the outside shots and Tom
Voigt's pictures of the interior, relatively small even for two people.  This
is what I meant when I said that, both being bright and sensitive people, they
probably looked for ways to give each other space in their cohabitation.



It's worth noting that Cheri Bates and her dad, for all their closeness, DID
argue about all the aspects of her life, including religion.  That Cheri and
Joseph were both practicing Catholics who attended mass together that Sunday
morning, and yet clearly had differing beliefs within the confines of their
faith, again underlines a reality that a casual look at that last day might
obscure.  Though Cheri and Joseph APPEAR to be following a conventional
routine, that they chose to attend mass together (any Catholic church would
have scheduled several masses on Sunday morning) and then had breakfast at
Sandy's Restaurant, when The Hardman Center was just around the corner from
their house, tells us they weren't sleepwalking through their lives together. 
Cheri had just visited her fiance in San Francisco the previous weekend, having
most likely traveled there with his parents.  Though Cheri had no plans to get
married in the immediate future, the prospect of living his life without his
daughter in the house, having separated from his wife, and with his son in the
Navy, had to be something Joseph Bates thought about every day.

"She always thought she was overweight."  Cheri Bates was NOT overweight or
anything close to it, but like many attractive young women, she was preoccupied
with her weight.  We know she cooked and ate supper before leaving the house
that afternoon.  We can reasonably assume she ate a normal-sized supper and not
a Thanksgiving Day meal.  She was murdered more than 5 hours after leaving the
house, and yet her stomach still contained 4 ounces of that supper when she was
autopsied.

I've had people email me that they can't believe her killer would use Cheri's
ID to take out books, since it would be too "risky" for an assailant who had
disabled her car and slashed her throat in a pitch dark alley.  I've had people
insist that Cheri could have gone to the library intent on making progress on
her term paper, and thus kept to herself, and that explains why she didn't talk
to anyone.

What I haven't had, at least up until now, is anyone tell me they can explain
the contents of Cheri Bates's stomach.  There have been posters on ZKF
suggesting Cheri may have left the library that night, gone to a nearby diner
(diners open after 9pm are scarce as hen's teeth) and eaten ADDITIONAL ROAST
BEEF AND VEGETABLES to supplement what she'd had back at her house.  Since
there are no eyewitnesses or other factual details to back up this suggestion,
I tend not to take it seriously.

"I was amazed at the number of kids from other schools that knew her." 
According to Zodiac message board posters and administrators, Cheri Bates spent
2 hours and 40 minutes inside The RCC Library that night, and then another 1
hour and 30 minutes out in front of the building, and none of her KNOWN friends
who were inside the library recalls seeing her.  We've already seen that the
Mexican-American student who spotted Cheri in front of the library at 5:30pm
knew who she was, though he didn't actually say anything to her.  Cheri was
noticed by staff and customers in Sandy's Restaurant that morning, her car was
spotted by friends outside her house at 4:30pm, she was noticed by her girl
friend driving on Magnolia at 6:10pm, and by the March Air Force Base man in
the alley at 6:15pm, even though he didn't know who she was.

If you made a list of every student at RCC that fall, Cheri Bates would
probably be the last person who could spend 4 hours and 15 minutes ON CAMPUS
without being noticed, both because of how she looked and who she was.

Here's Mike Butterfield on the subject of Ray Grant in The Crackpot Files:

No responsible person would act as Grant has, and his behavior demonstrates an
absolute disregard for the victims, their families, the investigators, the
public, the truth, and YOU.

Gee, Mike, I'm sorry you feel that way.  But if we're talking about responsible
people, here's a list of Zodiac websites that have shown an absolute disregard
for the victims and their families:

ZKF, ZK.com, ZKS

I don't mean to be harsh here, because I think even Mike Butterfield, on some
level, really wants this case to be solved.  I read about Mike's frustration in
dealing with Riverside PD's preconceptions, and I feel his pain.

But when I hear even good, reasonable people like Morf13 talking recently about
who Cheri Bates would have walked down that alley with just before she was
murdered, I throw up my hands.

Cheri Bates never made it as far as the library, guys.

It's what the 65 eyewitnesses say.

It's what her stomach says.

And if she HAD been in the library, she'd have talked to people and they'd have
noticed her.

That's what all her friends say, in addition to saying she wouldn't have walked
down that alley voluntarily, and wouldn't have left her car with the windows
down and the keys in the ignition and her books and notebook behind.

The more we know about Cheri Bates, the more ridiculous the Zodiac website
version looks.

"But, The Confession Letter says . . ."

Ah, The Confession Letter!  Written by her killer!

What possible motive could HE have for telling us a lie?

Okay, I'll try to calm down and come back to this later.




Yes, reader, I know what you're thinking.  Joseph Bates's account here is
sufficiently different from the standard true crime, raw facts account of that
day, which is itself based on information mostly provided by Riverside PD in
newspaper and magazine stories from the 1960s, that we'll have to re-think the
timeline.

Let's start by clearing up any misconceptions about where Joseph Bates went on
that day.  I suggested, in the main Riverside article on this site, that he
either traveled to Newport Beach (about an hour from Riverside by car) or
Huntington Beach (about an hour and 10-15 minutes from Riverside).

We can now eliminate Huntington Beach as a possibility, since Newport Beach,
Corona Del Mar, and Norco are all in the same general area, an hour's drive
from Riverside.  Joseph Bates went to the beach that Sunday in an area close to
where he worked, The Corona Naval Ordnance Laboratory.  The article says that
he left with a friend, unspecified gender, so it's possible he went to the
beach with a lady friend, or he may have gone with a male friend expecting to
socialize when they got to the beach.

This account has Cheri Bates studying at home all day.  I speculated in the
main article that she did housework during the day on Sunday, since she didn't
notice her bibliography was missing until 5:30pm, when she called her friend
Donna.  Of course, Cheri's term paper would have been for a single course, and
a college student typically takes several courses in a given term.  So it's
conceivable that Cheri did work for her other courses, particularly if she had
reading to do (which is basically what a college student does: read).

Again, if we consider that Cheri had spent the previous weekend traveling to
San Francisco, almost certainly in the company of her fiance's parents, it's
reasonable to assume she was a little behind on her coursework, so maybe she
spent most of that Sunday in her house reading.

The major discrepancy in this timeline from the previous ones is that Joseph
Bates did NOT return home circa 5pm; instead, he called his own house, and the
line was busy.  When he called 15 minutes later, the line was still busy.  He
then went home and Cheri was gone.  I have to assume the narrative remained the
same from Joseph's standpoint: he read the note Cheri left for him (DAD-WENT TO
RCC LIBRARY), took a call from Stephanie, wrote a note to Cheri (most likely
mentioning Stephanie's call and telling her where he was), and went right back
out again.

The first, most obvious question is whether Cheri was actually talking to
anyone between 5pm and 5:15pm.  A busy line means that that particular number
is engaged, but it doesn't mean that Cheri was necessarily at the house making
an outgoing call.  It's possible that Stephanie, who called when Joseph
returned to the house after 5:15pm, attempted to call Cheri at her house
several times between 5pm and 5:15pm, and Joseph just happened to call twice,
15 minutes apart, when Stephanie had already engaged the line, thus getting a
busy signal.

If Cheri WAS still at the house, it seems unlikely that her own outgoing call
was to Stephanie, since she reported the call at 3:45pm and would likely have
mentioned a later call if she'd talked to Cheri later.

The other possibility is that the call to Donna, presumed to have been made at
5:30pm, actually came 15 minutes or more earlier, and was made from the house
rather than the library.  This is also difficult to reconcile with what we
know.  Cheri asked if Donna had seen her bibliography, if Cheri had somehow
left it at the bank where they both worked.  Since Donna had not seen it, if
Cheri was back at her house when she talked to Donna, she would likely have
looked for it in her bedroom, where she did her studying.  In other words,
Cheri would have had no reason to drive to the library, then drive back to the
house, and then back to the library again in time to be seen by the two
witnesses.  The only way the witness accounts can be reconciled is if Cheri
originally drove to the library assuming she had the bibliography, then found
out she didn't, then called Donna from a pay phone outside the library and was
told Donna hadn't seen it, then drove back to her own house to look for the
bibliography, and then drove back toward RCC in time to be seen by the two
witnesses.

In other words, in the absence of any other account, we have to assume that the
teenaged Stephanie kept calling Cheri's house between 5pm and 5:15pm, and
Joseph just happened to call a couple times when Stephanie had already engaged
the line, and then when Joseph returned to the house himself the phone rang--
and it was Stephanie, of all people.

But if Cheri DIDN'T speak to Stephanie, and the busy signals were because
Stephanie was already calling the house when Joseph tried calling, that still
means Cheri had to have left the house by 5pm or so, because otherwise she'd
have answered Stephanie's call to the house.  Allowing a few minutes leeway,
Cheri could have left the house a few minutes after 5pm, made the 10-15 minute
drive to RCC by 5:15pm or even 5:20pm, been out in front of the library at 5:
30pm in time to be seen by the Mexican-American student, then called Donna from
a pay phone outside the library, and so forth.

Could some third party, other than Stephanie or Donna, have spoken on the phone
to Cheri that afternoon between 5pm and 5:15pm?  If so, then we have to assume
that person has kept quiet about it for well over 4 decades.  I can just hear a
Zodiac message board poster muttering to himself, "Well, if it was her killer
who called her, he probably wouldn't say anything about it."  If it was her
killer who called her, then we still have all the logistical issues we had
before, with her not being seen by anyone that evening, and her stomach
contents not making sense, and the state her car was left in being completely
uncharacteristic of her.  Plus we have the additional problem that her killer
was familiar enough to keep her on the phone for 15 minutes.  All the men in
Cheri's immediate social circle would have been checked out thoroughly by
Riverside PD, including being checked for scratches the day after her murder. 
If it was just some guy who called unexpectedly and creeped her out, she'd be
that much less likely to go willingly with him later that evening.

If Cheri's killer called her at 5pm that afternoon, then we'll have another
case of the typical Zodiac website "insight": an off-the-wall hypothesis that
can't be proven or disproven, for which there's no direct evidence, and which
has the further advantage of leading us absolutely nowhere.

In short, I think the most likely scenario is that Stephanie began calling
Cheri's house shortly after Cheri left, circa 5pm or so, and the two times
Joseph Bates called, circa 5pm and 5:15pm, he got a busy signal because
Stephanie had just called the same number and was listening to the phone ring. 
Granted, this assumes a coincidence, but it's backed up by Stephanie calling
again just as Joseph Bates got to the house after 5:15pm.  As to why Joseph
wouldn't have asked Stephanie if she'd called between 5pm and 5:15pm, he'd have
assumed that Cheri was actually talking to someone on the phone, and had left
just before he got there.  This was 1966, in the days before home answering
machines and voice mail.  Joseph probably told Stephanie that he'd just arrived
home when the phone rang, so there was no reason for her to mention that she'd
been calling for the past 15 minutes.

The advantage to assuming that Stephanie made those calls, thus causing
Joseph's busy signal, is that it fits all the other facts as we know them.  




"She always studied in her room, not at school."  Well, we do have at least one
photo, the one on the very next page of this article, of Cheri studying in The
RCC Library Annex.  One must assume, whether Cheri found her bibliography or
not, that she would have had to spend a decent amount of time in the library
that night, since she was writing a term paper for a class with other students
also writing term papers on the same or on a related subject.  Even if her
class was American History, the course material would still have concentrated
on specific areas covered by the teacher, so there would have been a demand for
books on certain subjects.  One strong memory I have from my college years was
having to wait for reference books (which is to say, books you couldn't check
out) at the Hillman Library at Pitt ; you would literally check books out for
an hour, leaving your student ID at the desk as collateral.  You would then do
your reading and note-taking right there in the building.

"Joseph went back to his friend's house for dinner."  It may seem as if I'm
paying too much attention to what Joseph Bates was doing that day, but what his
daughter did was clearly related to his own activities, even in absentia. 
Since Joseph did not return home until after midnight, and his friend clearly
lived reasonably close right there in Riverside, we can speculate that, after
having dinner at his friend's house, they likely watched TV that evening, with
Joseph probably expecting his daughter to call or come over at some point.

This account has Cheri asking Stephanie Gutman to go to The RCC Library "to
pick up a few books".  I've seen other citations that say, instead, "to pick up
a few books and do some studying."  Again, Cheri may not have intended to spend
the entire evening at The RCC Library, but I think it's reasonably safe to say,
particularly since she ate dinner just prior to leaving the house, that she
expected to be at the library for at least an hour or so.

A lone male librarian thought he MIGHT have seen Cheri in the library that
night, or it may have been some other night.  If Cheri Bates had been in the
library that night, numerous friends would have noticed her, and Cheri herself
would have talked to people.  If Cheri's NOT being in the library that night
can be considered The Ray Grant Theory About Cheri Bates, I'll put it up
against The Theory of Evolution.  I'm sorry, Zodiac hobbyists--it's simply not
in dispute.  She wasn't there.

The problem with NOT assuming Cheri went back home (circa 5:30pm-6pm) in an
attempt to find her bibliography, after being seen outside the library by the
Mexican-American student who knew who she was at 5:30pm, and then calling her
friend Donna from a pay phone outside the library, is twofold: 1, you have
about 40 minutes to account for (5:30pm-6:10pm) when Cheri wasn't seen by
anyone; and 2, you still have to explain how Cheri could be driving TOWARD the
library at 6:10pm when she was AT the library at 5:30pm.




Joseph Bates returned to the house around midnight and noticed the note he'd
left for Cheri--this article says the notes were left ON THE KITCHEN TABLE,
rather than being TAPED TO THE REFRIGERATOR DOOR--was undisturbed.  As I've
said, if Cheri returned to the house to look for her missing bibliography,
since she did all her studying in her bedroom, she would likely have walked in
the front door and walked straight to her bedroom without checking the
kitchen.  There would have been no reason, absent looking at her dad's note, to
believe he'd returned since she left an hour earlier (since she was seen on
Magnolia driving TOWARD RCC at 6:10pm, and the drive to RCC was 10-15 minutes,
and Stephanie's call to the house circa 5pm went unanswered), so she then
likely would have walked from the bedroom to the front door, particularly if
she'd been able to locate the missing bibliography in her search.

Here's something else to think about.  I've always regretted that Joseph Bates
didn't return to his house until around midnight, because it means Cheri
couldn't have called him from the library between 9pm and 10:30pm if she really
DID leave the building and find that her car wouldn't start.  Even if she
dialed the number, she couldn't have gotten him on the phone, and there were no
answering machines in 1966.

However, this account says that Joseph spent the day with a friend, and was at
the friend's house that evening.  Cheri must have known who he left for the
beach with, and if she had called her house and not gotten an answer, the next
logical place to call would have been the friend's house.  That Cheri Bates
DIDN'T call the friend's house that evening is yet another indication that she
was NEVER outside the library under her own power after 9pm that night.  It is
impossible to believe that she wouldn't have called her father as soon as she
found her car wouldn't start, and if she didn't get an answer at her own house,
she would certainly have attempted to call the friend's house.

What's that, you say?  Maybe the friend's number was unlisted?  Maybe it was,
but in 1966 unlisted numbers were very much the exception, because you had to
ask the phone company not to list your number and pay for the privilege of
being unlisted.  Most people's numbers were listed in their local phone
directories, and pay phones invariably were stocked with the local phone
directory.    



"Cheri was identified by papers in her bag purse which was found under her
body."

Let's think about this detail for a moment.  Mike Kelleher and Morf13 have
mentioned their uncertainty about where this timeline is headed.  I will
probably be posting TENTATIVE timelines for both Riverside and Lake Herman Road
in the next week, just to give some semblance of where I'm going with this and
what form the final product will take.  I'm guessing I'll list times and events
on the timeline articles, and arrange the material on the "walking through the
possibilities" articles so it's more coherent.  It's a little hard to be
coherent when you're still trying to work things out, but I do have an idea
where I'm headed generally.

Cheri Bates had a large carry-all style purse which was found under her body. 
The first thing that strikes me is the incongruity of her taking this purse
down the alley with her when she left her library books and notebook in her
car.  If she was going down the alley so the person she was with could drive
her home, wouldn't she logically have left everything back at the car so he
could then drive back up the alley and she could then retrieve her materials
from her own car?  This would seem to be an either-or; either leave everything
in the car and then retrieve it when you were driven back up to Terracina, or
take everything with you.  Leaving the windows down would suggest that she
expected to be back up at the car momentarily.  But since she was terrified of
the dark, even if she felt comfortable with her companion, why not just stay at
the car while he went and got his?

The Confession Letter says that the killer offered Cheri a ride home, in which
case we would expect her to roll up her windows, take the keys, put the books
and notebook in her oversized bag, and lock the doors.  Instead, the details of
her death don't fit any logical scenario.  Her personal effects are left in a
disorganized state, very much as if she wasn't in control of them.  We would
fully expect the crime scene to be chaotic, if her killer suddenly turned on
her.  But EVERYTHING was chaotic--her crime scene, her car, her schedule.

Cheri Bates was interrupted in the middle of the afternoon, and given no chance
to tidy up her effects.  If she was driving on a warm afternoon, we can expect
that her windows would be down, the doors unlocked, and obviously the keys in
the ignition.  If someone accosted her just as she parked, the condition of her
car is consistent with that.  Since the car was found parked 75 yards east of
the alley where she was found, it's entirely possible that she was never near
the car after the abduction, that her killer(s) took her back and walked her
down the alley without passing her VW.

If Cheri Bates had her throat slashed by three swipes of a small-bladed knife,
and if in the process of being attacked, she was  able to pull the killer's
Timex watch off her wrist, and the ground was churned up like a freshly plowed
field . . . what are the chances her bag would be found directly under her
body?  I'm not discounting it as a possibility, but it strikes me that a
slashing attacker will be moving in in wide swaths toward the victim, and that
the victim's thrashing and yanking the watch off and trying desperately to get
away will result in a reasonable amount of centrifugal movement.  And yet, the
two objects are found in close proximity, the watch ten feet away and the bag
underneath her.  I honestly don't think it's possible to choreograph an attack
in hindsight, but it does strike me as odd that, with all the energy of that
attack and Cheri's athletic defense, with the attacker's hair found stuck to
her palms in blood, that everything ended up in one place.  If the attack were
a weather event, it might best be described as a Microburst.  If I may
paraphrase Aquiman from ZKF: I'm willing to buy the bag being found under her,
OR the watch landing nearby; BOTH objects ending up in the same place looks a
little staged, under the circumstances.

"The driveway was so churned up, it looked like a tractor had been over the
ground."

"The girl, who was very athletic, put up a terrific struggle."

I put it to the reader that, if you think carefully about those two statements,
they don't make any sense.

If you take The Confession Letter at face value, Cheri Bates is approached at
her car by an acquaintance from her past (perhaps from Ramona High School) who
has, unbeknownst to her, disabled the engine while she was inside the library. 
Cheri exits the library, where no one has noticed her for 2 hours and 40
minutes, and then finds that her car won't start, so she doesn't call her dad
or any of her friends from a nearby pay phone.  Instead, she chooses to accept
the offer of a ride from a guy whose advances years ago she brushed off, and,
after a wait of 1 hour and 30 minutes (don't ask me to explain that one--the
car wouldn't start, she doesn't call anyone, no one sees her outside, and she
doesn't walk away from the car with her stalker until 90 minutes later), she
finally accepts the offer of a ride.

She's left her car with the windows down and the keys in the ignition, and with
her books and notebook left behind, but takes her big purse.  The killer and
victim walk 75 yards to the west and start down the alleyway between derelict
houses.  It's pitch dark, and her friends say Cheri is terrified of the dark. 
ABRUPTLY, after telling her that it's time for her to die, her companion turns
on her and begins slashing her face.  Cheri had superficial cuts on her face
which presumably predated the slashes to her throat.

And what does Cheri do?

She stands her ground and begins hand-to-hand combat with her attacker.

Remember what I said a moment ago about how everything pertaining to the attack
was localized?

Cheri Bates is suddenly assaulted in a pitch dark place that figured to terrify
her, with a young man who had already creeped her out in the years prior. 
Would her first instinct be to fight with him, or to run?

There were no signs of a struggle on the path leading to the murder scene; all
the signs were in the immediate vicinity of her body.  If the ground was
churned-up, that could only be because Cheri and her attacker were standing in
the same place and spinning their wheels.  That her attacker's hair was stuck
in blood to her palms is additional evidence that she was grappling with him at
close quarters.

So we know WHAT she did; what we don't know is WHY.

Cheri Bates chooses, in a terrifying, pitch dark place, with an attacker who
has turned on her suddenly, and whose initial knife thrusts do not inflict
mortal damage, to stand her ground and fight.  She pulls his hair out and yanks
his wrist watch off.

The one thing she DOESN'T do is run.

If a 5' 3", 107-pound, 18 year-old female doesn't run in that situation, there
are only two possibilities: 1, she's a martial arts enthusiast (which we know
Cheri wasn't), or 2, running just wasn't an option.

Since Cheri's body showed no obvious signs of her having been bound in any way,
and she wasn't physically disabled, the most likely explanation for her lack of
mobility was that there was more than one attacker.

But wait, you say: there's no direct evidence of more than one attacker.

Well, there were no footprints in the immediate vicinity of the attack because
the ground was torn up, so we can't learn from that.  And not ONE, but TWO
people were missing from the Riverside PD reenactment at the library: a bearded
stocky man in his 20s, and a woman, and those two people were seen talking to
each other inside the building.

I've pointed this out already, but I'll mention it again.  Riverside PD asked
the FBI to compare the latents left on Cheri's car with those from Presidio
Heights in a memo from October 1969, and almost immediately afterward, they
announced that the Bates murder was NOT a Zodiac crime, and that they would
pursue their local suspect, despite their initial enthusiasm about a possible
Zodiac involvement.

The only thing we can conclude from their sudden turnabout on the Zodiac link
is that the Bates latents did not match those from Presidio Heights.  But that
doesn't mean the Zodiac wasn't involved in both murders; it only means that the
person who left the prints on the Bates car was a different person from the one
who left the prints on Paul Stine's cab.  If Cheri Bates was abducted, as I
think she was, the abduction would have been a lot easier to pull off if two
people were involved.

So, if the Riverside murder is a Zodiac crime . . . the Zodiac is at least two
people.

Cheri Bates's killer managed, somehow, to slash her throat three times with a
short-bladed knife in a pitch dark alley, nearly decapitating her.  All her
other wounds were incidental.  if you assume her attacker was alone, the
concentration of his target areas, particularly under the circumstances, is
astounding.  She yanked off his wrist watch and ripped his hair out, and his
attacks were completely focused on cutting her head off.

Put those two incongruities together:

1, a terrified victim who doesn't flee; and

2, an assailant who attacks very suddenly and concentrates that attack on one
part of her body with great accuracy, even though the victim is ripping his
wrist watch off and pulling his hair out in pitch darkness while he focuses
entirely on her throat.

The circumstances of her death are consistent with Cheri Bates being assaulted
by at least two people, one of whom probably held her while the other attacked
with a knife.  I'll admit that's a very tricky proposition in a dark alleyway,
and it's clear that Cheri still tried to fight her assailants off, but she was
overpowered and eventually subdued and died very quickly, and her body was laid
on top of her purse, perhaps to make sure that the identifying papers in her
purse were found with her.

Again, I fully expect hobbyists on Zodiac websites to continue to insist that
Cheri Bates spent 2 hours and 40 minutes inside the library that night, and
then another 1 hour and 30 minutes out in front of the library at her car, and
then walked down that alleyway with a single assailant and was killed in a
struggle where she made absolutely no attempt to escape from a killer who was
Hell-bent on cutting her head off.

As Ed Neil once said, Ray Grant has a problem with the FACTS.

Especially the FACTS that have been accepted for 46 years--the ones that don't
make any sense.




The Timex wrist watch was found 10 feet from Cheri Bates's dead body.  I've
already said it's incongruous that in such a violent struggle, two objects were
found, one under the body (her oversized handbag), and the other only 10 feet
from the body.  One would think that, in a desperate fight to the death where
the victim yanked a watch off her assailant's wrist, and had his hair stuck to
the palms of her hands in blood, at least one of those two objects would be
further from the body.

I'm 6' 1".  If I lie down on the ground and stretch my arms out in front of me,
with my feet touching the body, I could almost reach the Timex on the ground. 
Cheri Bates is supposed to have yanked that Timex off the killer's wrist with
such force that the leather band broke up at the watch face.

I've already mentioned the John Cameron Swayze commercials in my physical
books.  If the reader will click on TZMS 1993, at some point I talk in detail
about how those live commercials were staged and broadcast.  The Timex watch
took a licking and kept on ticking, no matter what it was strapped to.  They
used airplane propellers, fan blades, washing machine agitators, and anything
else that promised to give the watch a rough ride.  The company prided itself
on how durable that watch was, and yet the Timex found ten feet from Cheri
Bates's body not only was stopped, the band broke.

Cheri Bates fights for her life, rips a leather band off her attacker's wrist
and sends the attached watch flying . . . and it travels 10 feet.  Okay, so
maybe it went straight up in the air and just landed nearby?

But we know the killer had a flashlight, because he cut the middle wire from
the distributor of her engine.  6:20pm sounds a bit early for it to get dark on
October 30th, but Eastern Standard Time had returned that morning at 2:00am, so
at 6:20pm that night . . . it was "really" 7:20pm.

If Cheri Bates's killer had a flashlight, why couldn't he find the Timex?  It
was only 10 feet from the body, and would have glinted in the light,
particularly against the background of the bright gravel.








Again, Cheri's palms actually contained mitochondrial DNA, presumably from her
killer.

The account of the Mexican-American student here is not accurate, assuming the
other accounts of him are correct.  He did not see her INSIDE the library but
out in front of the library, and he saw her there circa 5:30pm, not just prior
to the library reopening at 6pm.  Cheri could not have been near the library at
6pm because she was seen driving TOWARD the library on Magnolia at 6:10pm. 
Since she was seen driving up an alley a block from the library at 6:15pm, we
have to assume that the two sightings were about 5 minutes driving time apart. 
So if Cheri was seen driving toward the library on Magnolia at 6:10pm, more
than 5 minutes from the library (with still another block to drive) she could
not possibly have walked INTO the library at 6pm, unless it was her intention
to immediately run back out, jump in her car, drive back out along Magnolia,
and then somehow turn the car around in time for her girl friend to see her--
which seems unlikely.

The Mexican-American student DID confirm that he saw Cheri writing in her blue
spiral notebook, which was the same notepad later found in her car the next
morning.  This means that Cheri had to have parked her car prior to the
sighting at 5:30pm, and then taken the notepad with her to wait outside the
library.  In other words, she did not leave the notepad in her car.  So, if she
walked voluntarily away from her car with her killer later that night, carrying
a large bag with papers identifying her inside it, why wouldn't she at least
have taken the notepad with her?  We know Cheri was moving around under her own
power at 5:30pm, since she was alone, and she was writing in her notebook.  Why
would she leave the notebook behind, along with the books she'd taken out, to
walk the distance of almost a football field, while still taking a big handbag
with other papers inside it?  Cheri Bates was a methodical person, and her
choices that night seem random. 



There's been speculation on ZK.com that Cheri left her car in the state it was
in so that a mechanic could come by the next morning to work on the car.  This
assumes that Cheri could have called a mechanic after 9pm that night.  Maybe
she could have called a service station, but the mechanic would not have been
available at that time of night.  In any case, she'd have called her dad or a
friend before she did that.

But the detail about the mechanic does point out that the car had been worked
on that week.  Remember, the engine of a VW Beetle is in the BACK of the car,
but the greasy prints were left in the FRONT of the car, so whoever cut that
wire left a palm print on the passenger seat while doing something that had
nothing to do with the engine--probably looking for her handbag with the school
ID.

In any case, the speculation on ZK.com was that the greasy prints may have been
left by the mechanic, which is not true--Riverside PD went to the trouble of
eliminating his prints.  The greasy prints on the door and on the front seat
where left by whoever cut the wire.  So why would he need to be groping around
under the front seat?

Cheri's killer couldn't have disabled the engine while she was in the library,
because she was never in the library.  If she was abducted after she parked on
Terracina, which is where all the evidence points, then the killer cut the
distributor wire NOT to keep Cheri from driving away, since she'd already been
abducted at that point.  He cut the distributor wire TO PUT CHERI IN THE
LIBRARY.

Here's what puts Cheri IN THE LIBRARY: the checked-out books and the
distributor wire.

If there are books checked out on her student ID, SHE MUST HAVE CHECKED THEM
OUT.

If the distributor wire was cut, IT MUST HAVE BEEN CUT WHILE SHE WAS IN THE
LIBRARY.

So if I've just abducted a victim, I can cover up the abduction by seeming to
place her in the library by checking out books on her card and cutting the
distributor wire in her engine.

When the police saw the library books, they must have said to themselves,
"Okay, she must have been in the library at some point."

When the police noticed that the distributor wire was cut, they must have said,
"Okay, obviously she drove to the library with an intact distributor wire.  And
she didn't cut her own distributor wire.  So her killer must have cut the wire
so that when she came out and tried to drive away, she couldn't."

Here's the interesting thing: RPD would have noticed the cut distributor wire
no later than whatever time on Monday they decided to move her car back to
headquarters, and found the engine wouldn't start, assuming one of their techs
didn't notice it while they were looking the car over.  So, probably within the
first 24 hours after the murder, they knew that someone, and most likely her
killer, had cut that wire.

What they wouldn't have known was WHEN the wire was cut.  An estimated time for
the murder was tentatively set while police were still processing the crime
scene, and RPD would have known that the library had closed at 9pm, but they
wouldn't have had much of a timeline to work with even after interviewing 75
witnesses in the first 24 hours.

If there is one fundamental blind spot area in the treatment of the Bates
murder by ALL the Zodiac websites, it's this:

Wait, the reader thinks I'm going to mention the library reconstruction or her
stomach contents.

No.  Those are HUGE blind spots, but something happened in the course of the
investigation before the reenactment even happened, and NO ONE noticed the
stomach contents until I pointed them out just in the past year.

There's something a lot more basic that police had to deal with in the first
few days after the murder.

They had no idea where Cheri Bates was.

Riverside PD put notices in the newspapers for anyone who saw Cheri Bates that
evening to come forward.

And no one did.

People like Morf think I'm hijacking the Bates investigation because I keep on
harping on those 65 eyewitnesses from the library reenactment.

But it's not just 65 eyewitnesses.

It's the entire population of Riverside, California.

Cheri Bates wasn't seen by anyone, anywhere.  Period.

The entire focus of the investigation, for the first two weeks, was locating
Cheri Bates.

And no one could.

They knew where she was at 6:15pm.  They knew where she was at 6:30am the next
morning.

In between, nothing.

I've told this story before, but it illustrates what I'm saying here so I'll
repeat it.  When I was writing my Zodiac novel back in 2001, my editor Laurie
Baker called me up while she was reading the manuscript.  She was laughing
hysterically.  "Laurie, I'm not THAT funny," I reminded her.  "You've got to
take out this part about the reenactment in Riverside," she guffawed.  "No
one's going to believe a big city police force would reconstruct a co-ed
murder."  "What do you mean?  That's exactly what happened in real life!"  She
abruptly stopped laughing.  "You're KIDDING!"

Nope.  Riverside PD conducted a reconstruction of the night of the murder on
Sunday, November 13, 1966, in real time, with everyone wearing the same clothes
they wore, sitting in the same seats, parking in the same spaces, and so
forth.  Hobbyists on Zodiac websites have never taken that exercise seriously,
and they've completely ignored the results for reasons I'll touch on in a
moment, but I want to focus on the reason the police actually did the
reconstruction in the first place.

They did the reconstruction because they couldn't locate Cheri Bates after 6:
15pm, because two weeks had gone by and no one had come forward with any
information about her, and they were desperate.

Doing a reconstruction on that scale is unheard-of.

Researchers who have been actively involved in the Zodiac investigation know
how hard it is to get the police to follow up on anything.  I've been lucky
enough to get police personnel to cooperate with me at times, but more often
than not, I've run into brick walls, even when the investigators in question
didn't need to actually do anything to help me.  Kelly Carroll of SFPD blocking
me from doing a GPR scan on Clay Street in 2000, even when I was paying for it,
just because he didn't want me to find out what I wanted to know, is just one
example of that.  He's not even on the force any more.

The fact that Riverside PD even did that reconstruction, the very fact that
they did the most elaborate thing they could do to jog the memories of the
people in that building, is a testament to the absence of Cheri Josephine Bates
from The RCC Library that night.

And the reconstruction turned up absolutely nothing.

But the hobbyists on Zodiac websites?  They know Cheri Bates most definitely
WAS there that night!

There are the books, after all; you can't check a book out unless it's your
ID.  There were no student IDs with photos back then, but that's a minor point.

There's the severed distributor wire; you can't cut a wire unless the car
owner's in the library.

Plus, THE KILLER HIMSELF says she was in the library in The Confession Letter.

They may have a point there.  If I'm going to start doubting what THE KILLER
HIMSELF is telling us, maybe it's time to walk away?

Speaking of The Confession Letter, note the timing of that letter.  It is
written a month after the murder, and a full two weeks and two days after the
reconstruction.  The progress of the investigation would have been covered in
significant detail in the newspapers--the Bates murder was the biggest story in
Riverside.  The writer of the letter, who was Cheri Bates's killer after all,
would thus be aware of two things:

1, what ACTUALLY happened (since he was the killer); and

2, what THE POLICE THOUGHT had happened.

There's a tendency, in a situation such as this, to assume that the police held
cards that the killer was unaware of.  But that's not true.  The only card the
police would hold would be the extent of their own knowledge.  That they had
staged a reenactment would pretty much demonstrate that they had no idea what
had happened to Cheri Bates that night, beyond what was obvious at the crime
scene.

What am I getting at, here?

Cheri Bates had to be abducted that afternoon, because she wasn't seen after 6:
15pm.  Whoever abducted her had access to her student ID.  We know that books
were charged out on her card, and that no staff member recalls EITHER seeing
Cheri or using her ID to check out books.  So we're stuck with one of two
possibilities: either Cheri managed somehow to enter the library, use the card
catalogue, make notes, look for books, and then charge those books out, all
without anyone noticing her . . . or someone else used her card to charge out
books, without the staff member noticing that a student ID that said CHERI
BATES was being used.  Which is more likely?  I don't even think that's a
serious question.  60 Minutes just did a story on students taking the SAT for
other students, in situations where photo IDs were used and even checked by the
test proctors, and the ringers were never noticed.  Identity theft happens
every day.  What's so hard to believe about a non-photo ID being used
successfully by someone who's willing to kill?

So much for the checked-out books proving anything.

But the killer doesn't mention the books in The Confession Letter.  He does
mention cutting the wire, which has the advantage of connecting him to the
murder, in addition to seeming to place Cheri in the library.

I have to be honest here and say I don't think it's the library books that
convinces people.

I don't think the cut wire is what cuts it for people.

I think people believe Cheri Bates was in the library for 2 hours and 40
minutes, and then outside in front of the library for 1 hour and 30 minutes,
because that's what The Confession Letter says.

It's that simple.

When people disappear, it creates a void.  When Judge Crater, or Amelia
Earhart, or Jimmie Hoffa disappear without a trace, a vacuum takes the place of
their outlines in the world, and nature abhors a vacuum.

Cheri Bates disappeared without a trace at 6:15pm that afternoon.  No one knows
what happened to her.  Her body suddenly showed up in an alley the next
morning.  Exactly what happened in between those times is open to speculation. 
And a full month after the murder, her killer would have known that the police
and newspapers had no theories and no suspects.

Her killer(s) had had the foresight to check the books out with her student ID,
and to cut the middle wire of the distributor, and to stage her murder so it
looked like a crime of passion.

The authorities didn't know what happened, so the killer sent them the version
he preferred them to believe.

I strongly suspect that, had the police advanced the theory that Cheri must
have been abducted, since no one saw her after 6:15pm despite the presence of
friends in the library, and since her stomach contents were consistent with her
having been kidnapped before being murdered, The Confession Letter would never
have been sent.  Or, at the very least, it would have been sent without
including any details about the crime itself. 

One of the great ironies of the Zodiac investigation is that websites like ZKF
have harped on the importance of forensic links and witness accounts, and
scoffed at theories based on circumstantial evidence.

in the Cheri Bates murder, we have an autopsy (forensics) which tells us the
victim was abducted, and 65 eyewitnesses who all say the same thing--that she
wasn't inside the library, outside the library, or anywhere else to be seen
that night.

instead, supposedly dedicated researchers believe the killer's account, which
is in conflict with all the other witnesses, and which has the victim behaving
in a way that was completely uncharacteristic of her.

As the Zodiologist website has pointed out (note that I give credit where
credit is due): Why on Earth would a killer write a letter to the police and
newspapers WHICH POINTS THEM IN HIS OWN DIRECTION?

"I'm a local boy, I killed Cheri Bates because she gave me the brush-off, just
check her impressive list of Spurned Suitors and I'm sure I'll stick out like a
sore thumb."

And the punchline was: no one fit that description.  "Bob Barnett" was the
closest Riverside PD could get to the profile, and even there, they had to make
up half the list of circumstantial links and bribe jailhouse snitches to make
it plausible.  As Cheri Bates's fiance said, RPD wasted 30 years chasing
someone they never should have investigated in the first place.

And now the administrator of a Zodiac website is picking new suspects out of
her high school yearbook.
   



I apparently didn't keep or didn't originally download the pages on Cheri's
autopsy, but I will mention some portions of that autopsy that DON'T concern
her stomach contents.  I can hear the reader muttering to himself, "Wait just a
minute there!  Ray Grant discussing the Cheri Bates autopsy, and he's NOT going
to talk about what was in her stomach?  That's all he EVER talks about!"

Well, Cheri Bates's stomach contents tell us she was abducted sometime that
afternoon, because being in fear of her life is the only thing that could have
kept her stomach from emptying itself over a 5 1/2 hour period.  If she left
her house at 5pm, and she was abducted at 6:20pm, that means her stomach
already had 1 hour and 20 minutes to digest her supper.  For an energetic 18-
year-old with a very high metabolism, that would have sufficed to process
something like 2/3 of what she ate (assuming a teenager would be on the short
end of the 2-4 hour normal digestion rate).  If she was left with 4 ounces of
food, that means she must have eaten about 12 ounces at supper, right? 
However, we have to assume that digestion would not have been completely halted
no matter how intense her mental state was.  More likely, Cheri ate 16-18
ounces of food at supper, had digested roughly half of that by the time she was
kidnapped, and then very slowly processed what was left in her agitated state,
until she was murdered, leaving about 4 ounces.

By the way, there is nothing even remotely unusual about the above calculation.

Medical examiners have pointed out, in textbooks and true crime accounts, that
the timing of digestion very often trips up killers who were not aware of its
predictability.  There's a case involving a traveling salesman who had dinner
with his family on Friday night, then murdered his wife and children and
arranged their bodies to look as if an intruder had killed them.  He then left
the house, traveled to a convention where he was seen by people he assumed
would provide an alibi for him, then returned on Sunday night and called the
police.  Since the salesman had no apparent reason to kill his family, the
police believed his story that he had left late Friday evening and returned to
find them dead . . . until their stomachs were examined and found to still be
full of Friday night's dinner.  The victims had to have been killed almost
immediately after they ate.  The salesman tried adjusting forward the time when
he left the house, but his story was proven false by the forensics; he'd had to
have left immediately after supper for his story to be true, and it was too
late to change it.

Medical examiners also attest to the frequency of this phenomenon in serial
murder cases, where the killer abducts his victims before killing them.  It is
not atypical to autopsy a victim whose organ temperatures say she was killed
several hours after she was last seen, and yet for that victim to still have a
significant amount of food in her stomach if she had eaten recently.  This is
true because many serial killers assault their victims sexually before killing
them, in some cases transporting them to a secondary crime scene to do that.  
   

But in the Bates case, it isn't just the stomach contents that suggest her
death was neither sudden nor random.  There are two other odd aspects of her
autopsy that no one has commented on up to now.

The first is that there were only two types of wounds on Cheri Bates's body:
mortal, and superficial.

That seems odd all by itself, but it's worse than that.  Cheri Bates received
THREE gashes to her throat, such that she was nearly decapitated.  Other than
those three swipes, she had superficial cuts on her face, and a stab wound in
her back that wasn't close to being life-threatening.  There was also some
blunt force trauma to her head which, serendipitously, was commented upon by
her killer in The Confession Letter.

That head trauma may be the key to how she was killed.

Let's assume that Cheri Bates is SUDDENLY accosted by her companion.  Somehow,
he manages to make not ONE, not TWO, but THREE very accurate slashes to her
throat, resulting in her carotid artery being severed, her voice box being cut
through, and her head being nearly decapitated.  I just watched the epee
matches at the 2012 Olympic games in London, and I'm not sure even the best
fencers there could have pulled that off.  THREE slashes to Cheri Bates's
throat with a short-bladed knife in pitch darkness, when she was clearly
fighting for her life (yanked off watch, yanked out hair).  He manages to slash
her with great accuracy and murderous efficiency, and she neither flees nor
manages to spoil his aim with her own attacks.

A victim would almost have to lie down on the ground and bare her throat for a
killer to cause that much damage with so few strokes, and without creating
significant injury anywhere else on her body.

I'd say the whole thing doesn't make sense, but I don't want to sound like a
broken record.

Let's go back up that alley and rethink the timeline of the attack.

Remember, I'm assuming here that the conventional wisdom, the ZKF/ZK.com/ZKS
version of events is actually what happened, and that the account given in The
Confession Letter is accurate.

I don't believe that for a moment, but I have to deal with this popular
scenario before I can find the truth.

if Cheri Bates's attacker turned on her suddenly as they reached that point in
the alley where her body was found, what exactly happened?

Before anything else happens, her attacker grabs her and holds her.

We know this is what happened first, assuming everything else, because
otherwise Cheri Bates either runs back up the alley or runs down into the
parking lot below and gets away in the pitch darkness.  She was terrified of
the dark, and she was very athletic.  The only logical reason for her not
running would have been that it wasn't an option.

The other thing to think about is her attacker's state of mind.  HE has to
assume she will run as soon as he turns on her, so he has to move quickly to
make sure she doesn't get away.  Note that he'd gone to the trouble of
immobilizing her car, so it's fair to assume the murder itself was
premeditated.

So Cheri's attacker has her immobilized in a pitch dark alley.

How does he do that?

The killer SAYS, in The Confession Letter, that he began by choking her.  I've
never seen anyone choked to death in person, but I've watched demonstrations of
the concept in films and on television shows.  The assailant doing the choking
invariably has his victim in a very confined area, ofter the corner of a room
or a bathroom shower stall.

Why is that?

It's because someone choking a victim would normally do so by accosting her
from the front, using both hands to circle the throat area.  The problem with
doing that in an open area like the alleyway is that the victim is in a
position to strike back (like yanking his watch off, or yanking his hair out),
and then using that moment to twist away and run.

I GRABBED HER AROUND THE NECK WITH MY HAND OVER HER MOUTH AND MY OTHER HAND
WITH A SMALL KNIFE AT HER THROAT.

Those are the sentences from The Confession Letter pertaining to the attack
itself.  Let's process them in the order the killer has them in the letter:

1. He grabbed her around the neck,

2. with his hand over her mouth, and

3 his other hand with a small knife at her throat.

If you're counting, that's THREE hands so far: one around her neck, one clasped
over her mouth (to prevent her from screaming, presumably, so maybe that's THE
HAND THAT WASN'T THERE?), and the third with a knife at her throat.

As I suggested a minute ago, the killer's primary concern is to hold the victim
there long enough to kill her.  Which means that, if he doesn't kill her
immediately, he has to make absolutely sure she doesn't get away.

That he grabbed her around the neck might make sense, but putting a hand over
her mouth doesn't.  Witnesses in the area heard two screams, both of which
presumably came prior to the slashes to her throat.

But even if you assume that the killer was able to hold her with one hand, what
good would it do for him to put a small knife to her throat in pitch darkness? 
Is he going to convince her not to run by threatening to decapitate her?

The Confession Letter suggests there was some sort of momentary pause between
his grabbing her and the murder itself.  The Confession Letter suggests this
pause was for him to consider a sexual assault.

SHE WENT VERY WILLINGLY.  HER BREAST FELT VERY WARM AND FIRM UNDER MY HANDS. 
BUT ONLY ONE THING WAS ON MY MIND.  MAKING HER PAY FOR THE BRUSH OFFS THAT SHE
HAD GIVEN ME DURING THE YEARS PRIOR.

We know there was absolutely no attempt on the part of the killer to sexually
assault the victim.  That's very unusual in the case of a murder motivated by
sexual rage.  Murders motivated by sexual rage are inherently sloppy.

Here's a familiar example:

Nicole Brown-Simpson Autopsy

Does the reader notice an inherent difference between the Nicole Brown autopsy
and that of Cheri Bates?

The murder of Nicole Brown-Simpson was "hands-on"; the murder of Cheri Bates
was relatively clinical.  As I said, all of Cheri Bates's wounds were either
mortal or superficial.  The killer was clearly focused on cutting her throat,
period.

There is no reason to believe that the killer thought twice about what he was
going to do.  Everything leading up to the murder (cutting the distributor wire
and waiting for the right moment to approach) speaks of premeditation.

There was no need for the killer to pause and think about what he was going to
do.

And I doubt, very seriously, that he did.

SHE DIED HARD.  SHE SQUIRMED AND SHOOK AS I CHOKED HER, AND HER LIPS TWICHED. 
SHE LET OUT A SCREAM ONCE AND I KICKED HER HEAD TO SHUT HER UP.  I PLUNGED THE
KNIFE INTO HER AND IT BROKE.  I THEN FINISHED THE JOB BY CUTTING HER THROAT.

By the way, has anyone on any of the Zodiac websites explained how the killer
knew that the victim's lips twitched?  That alley was pitch dark, and even
though the killer was likely using a flashlight (he'd need one to sever the
distributor wire), it's unlikely he had enough hands left to shine the light in
her face.

What shut the victim up was not the killer kicking her head, but the three
slashes to her throat that cut through her voice box while nearly decapitating
her.  That's how we know that the other wounds came BEFORE the throat wounds. 
A witness in an apartment nearby related that she heard a horrible scream
around 10:30pm that night, followed by another, more muffled, scream, followed
by the sound of an old car starting up a minute later.

The killer did not waste any time leaving, once he'd cut the victim's throat.

The knife did not break off inside the victim.  But it raises another question
about the murder.  If you read the autopsy carefully, you will notice that none
of the wounds other than the throat wound is deeper than 2cm, with the
exception of a single stab wound to the upper right arm.  Two centimeters is
roughly three-quarters of an inch.

Graysmith describes the knife blade used in the attack as 3 1/2 inches long and
an inch wide.  If this is reasonably accurate, then the killer cannot be
described as having STABBED the victim; rather, he SLASHED the victim.

None of this is consistent with a normal knife attack.  If there is a target
zone for the typical knife assault, it would be the heart.  And yet, Cheri's
killer went out of his way, so to speak, to slash her throat, in the process
nearly cutting her head off.  Two other Zodiac victims (Shelly Holmboe and
Robert Salem) were likewise near-decapitated, and all three died on Sunday.

Mike Kelleher recently wrote an article questioning whether the author of The
Confession Letter was Cheri Bates's killer.  It's clear that Riverside PD
thinks so.  In any case, it's also clear that NEITHER The Confession Letter NOR
the murder scene as recorded is internally consistent.

The Confession Letter doesn't make any sense.

And neither does the murder scene, assuming it happened the way all the Zodiac
websites say it did.     

Let's continue this unique line of inquiry.

I've noted that the victim's wounds fall into two categories: superficial and
mortal.  Whether the wound pattern, both in location and depth, was purely
accidental or intentional, it was nevertheless consistent.

The slashes to the throat were concentrated and deep; the slashes to other
parts of her body were scattered and shallow.  It is, moreover, remarkable that
NONE of the wounds could be categorized as a STAB wound, which is to say, a
wound caused by a THRUST of the knife blade.  All of the wounds except those to
the throat essentially skimmed along the surface.  A Zodiac researcher who
wanted to contest what I'm saying here might point out that there were numerous
wounds on Cheri Bates's body, which MIGHT suggest that her killer was, in fact,
trying to stab her but somehow being thwarted by the victim's movements.

I don't think that suggestion holds up under serious scrutiny.  If the killer
was grappling with the victim in a confined space as I suggested earlier, in a
corner of a room or a shower stall (as in Pyscho), and he was actively
attempting to stab the victim, you would most likely see a mixed pattern of
wounds--some deep, some superficial, with greatly varying angles because of the
close quarters and the defensive posture of the victim.

But the killer and victim in Riverside were both standing up (presumably) in an
open area.  If the killer were actually stabbing her, most likely with
roundhouse thrusts, and in a pitch dark alley, most of those thrusts would
figure to be unblocked, both because of the greater freedom of movement and the
greater difficulty of the victim blocking them in the dark with no sense of
touch to guide her.  Even if the killer were holding the victim with one hand
and stabbing with the other, some of those thrusts would land, most likely in
the torso, and would penetrate all the more deeply because of the wider swings
he'd be making.

And yet, that didn't happen.  Except for the throat slashes, which were the
last wounds the killer inflicted, all the other wounds on her body were
superficial, the result of shallow slashes, not thrusts.

The wounds on Cheri Bates's body, in particular the mortal wounds in her
throat, were the result of conscious planning on the part of her killer.  He
didn't just intend to kill her.

He intended to kill her by cutting her throat, and doing it as graphically as
possible.  





An interesting tidbit about Cheri Bates's interment at Crestlawn Memorial Park
is that her grave was exhumed in 1986; she was then cremated and her ashes
scattered at sea.  Some posters on Tom Voigt's original archived message board
mentioned the possibility that, in anticipation of the publication of Robert
Graysmith's Zodiac (1986), the family may simply have removed Cheri's grave
marker and employed the cover story of the cremation/scattering.  Similar ruses
have been used by cemeteries in the cases of other notorious murder victims, to
keep the curious from desecrating graves.

The impact of the cremation, if true, on the investigation is that Cheri
Bates's body could then never be exhumed for the sake of the more sophisticated
forensic searches which are now available.  Those readers familiar with TV
channels such as Discovery ID ("The Serial Killer Channel") have probably
noticed how often murder victims are exhumed these days, particularly in cases
where the use of poison is suspected.  In 1986, the use of DNA as an
investigative tool was still theoretical, though the very first cases employing
the technique were to appear in the next few years.



This account of the reenactment breaks down the numbers a bit.  Of the 65
people involved in the reconstruction, 29 were fraternity brothers or pledges
who had met across the quad from the library.  Two were librarians, and one was
custodial.  Let's list the various numbers involved:

29 fraternity brothers or pledges
  2 librarians
  1 custodian
33 students using the library
65 total

It should be noted that the actual number, the night of the murder, was 67,
since two people seen that night--a stocky man in his 20s wearing a beard, and
a woman he talked to inside the library--did not return for the reenactment.

I'm sure one or two of my critics will point out that the breakdown here means
that there were only 36 eyewitnesses inside the library that night.  But that's
fine.  36 is still a TON of witnesses inside that small a space for that short
a time.  It also means that there were at least 29 eyewitnesses OUTSIDE the
library, and since they were fraternity brothers and pledges, they were most
likely all still out there at 9pm, when the library closed.

Since fraternity brothers and pledges tend to be all male, and boys being boys,
it seems unlikely that none of them would have noticed a beautiful blonde
having car trouble out in front of the building.

Along the same lines, this account has the reenactment beginning at 5pm, when
the library closed for supper.  Since we know, for example, that the Mexican-
American student who saw Cheri Bates writing in her notebook at 5:30pm outside
in front of the library, must have been one of the eyewitnesses there for the
reenactment, that means that the reenactment included  the hour prior to the
reopening at 6pm.

The number of eyewitnesses who saw Cheri Bates outside in front of the library
between 5pm and 6pm was . . . one.

And that eyewitness saw her at 5:30pm, a half hour prior to the doors opening.

I've said the reconstruction established that no one saw Cheri Bates for 2
hours and 40 minutes that night, since Cheri was seen driving up the alley a
block from the library at 6:15pm.

It is perhaps more accurate to say that no one AT the library saw Cheri for 3
hours and 30 minutes, and then no one saw her OUTSIDE the library for an
additional 1 hour and 30 minutes.

The only eyewitnesses who saw Cheri Bates after 5:30pm were the girl friend who
saw her driving on Magnolia TOWARD RCC at 6:10pm, and then the March Air Force
Base man who saw her driving up the alley a block from RCC at 6:15pm.

That's it.

Note that the motorcycle officers further choreographed the comings and goings
of the witnesses by checking off each as he arrived for the reconstruction, and
turning away anyone not on the list.  This further demonstrates that Cheri
Bates's arrival circa 6:20pm was not witnessed by anyone.

Note also, in the first paragraph of the next page, just below, that most of
the library patrons were parked on Terracina, which is to say, they were parked
on the same street where Cheri Bates had parked her car.  And the ones who
weren't parked on Terracina were parked around the corner on Riverside.  Only a
handful were parked in the lot.

Can anyone seriously believe, at this late date, that Cheri Bates was at her
car for 1 hour and 30 minutes that night, attempting to start it, and NO ONE
SAW HER?



There have been various accounts of The RCC Library reenactment over the years,
but none gives the thoroughness of Riverside PD's reconstruction sufficient
credit.  They literally created a grid of parked cars, a grid of the seating
arrangements, a grid of the comings and goings, a grid in time itself.

If you think about it, a grid is a kind of net.  It has intersecting lines just
like a net.  When you fill in the empty spaces, it tightens just like a net. 
The more things are inside the grid, the tighter the net becomes.

And yet, the net cast by Riverside PD did not catch Cheri Bates.  It may have
caught her killers, or at least shown them to have slipped the net, since they
didn't show up for the reenactment, but it didn't catch Cheri Bates.

The net didn't catch her because she was never there in the first place.

I'm sure someone will point out that "five or six persons with scratches on
their faces or persons" had been questioned at length by detectives.  It's
important to add that all of those persons would have been CLEARED by the
police, at least partly because their fingerprints were taken and a lock of
hair was taken from them.  So unless you're going to insist that this murder
was a lot more complicated than has been suggested up until now, you'll have to
let that one go.

For what I hope is the last time: all of the local people were looked at very
carefully.

The administrator of a Zodiac website recently suggested that two high school
classmates of Cheri Bates should be looked at as potential suspects.  If that
administrator actually HAD anything on those classmates, maybe I could
understand his suspicions.  But he doesn't; what he has is that the two ended
up living in Vallejo and Napa in 1969, and that the man who moved to Vallejo
was stocky and wore glasses.

I wonder how many men who lived in Vallejo in 1969 were stocky and wore
glasses?

To assume, 45+ years after the fact, that police would not have taken a very
close look at every local male who had ANY connection to Cheri Bates, is to
assume that Riverside PD, who had virtually every member of its force working
on the Bates homicide at one time or another, was incompetent.

By the way, anyone who graduated high school with Cheri Bates was likely born
in 1948, and would have been about 21 years old in 1969 when the Zodiac began
killing people in The Bay Area.  That's kind of young to be a Zodiac suspect;
it is, for example, 5 years younger than my own suspect.  No one has suggested
the Zodiac was that young.

Here's the same administrator on whether Cheri Bates was in The RCC Library
that night:

If you add it all up:
1-Note to Dad saying she was going to library
2-Friend seeing her heading that direction
3-witness seeing a car like here pulling into library parking lot
4-her books being found in her car
5-police report showing a violent struggle at the scene
I think all of this adds up to Cheri making it to the Riverside college
library, and being attacked there.

I don't think the administrator has ADD, but something about his thinking here
just doesn't add up!

1-A note can't possibly put anyone anywhere.
2-Heading in the direction of the library doesn't mean she walked INTO the
library.
3-What witness are you talking about?  Her car was parked on Terracina, not in
any lot.
4-Anyone in possession of Cheri's student ID could have charged out the books.
5-The crime scene details do not put her in the library that night; they put
her at the crime scene.

No one in the library saw her; no one outside the library saw her.

Zodiac website administrators believe that Cheri Bates was in the library that
night.
They believe she voluntarily left her car in the condition police found it the
next morning.
They believe she had the slowest digestion in the history of 18-year-old
cheerleaders.
They believe she was stabbed by her killer, never mind what the autopsy says.

When you ignore all the eyewitnesses . . .
When you ignore what the victim's friends and fiance say about her habits . . .
When you ignore what the forensic evidence tells us . . .

What's left?

What's left is what Zodiac website administrators and Zodiac message board
posters believe.

You can all believe what you want.

But do me a favor.

Don't call what you believe THE FACTS.

Because THE FACTS are what you people have decided to ignore.
 


Note that there's lots of MISinformation about Cheri available on the web:

AngelFire.com

   
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]













**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Riverside Timeline A ******
Im going to do two official timelines: A . . . and B.

Timeline B will cover what I think actually happened in Riverside.

Timeline A will cover what clearly DIDNT happen.

In Errol Morris's non-fiction film, The Thin Blue Line, the director uses
recreations similar to those found on True Crime TV shows (such as America's
Most Wanted) . . . but with one crucial difference.

Errol Morris believes David Harris killed Officer Robert Wood. But he never
shows us that. He shows us everything BUT that.

The reenactments in The Thin Blue Line don't attempt to show the truth.

Instead, they illustrate lies.

They demonstrate things that DIDN'T happen.

COULDN'T have happened.

Couldn't POSSIBLY have happened.

My intent, on this website, is to establish, by examining the timeline of each
individual Zodiac murder, WHAT ACTUALLY HAPPENED.

But, most of the time, I'll accomplish that by first showing what DIDN'T
happen.

What COULDN'T have happened.

What couldn't POSSIBLY have happened.

To paraphrase Sir Arthur Conan Doyle: Once one eliminates the IMPOSSIBLE,
whatever remains, however improbable, MUST BE THE TRUTH.

The truth in the Zodiac case is very hard to believe.

That's why I have to eliminate everything else first.

Riverside, California
Sunday, October 30, 1966

8am to 10am

Cheri Bates attends mass at St. Catherine Church on Brockton with her father,
Joseph Bates. After mass, the two eat breakfast at Sandys Restaurant in The
Hardman Center, around the corner from their house. One acquaintance who sees
Cheri at Sandys that morning is Bob Barnett (not his real name), who will be
the chief suspect in her murder for almost 30 years.

TIMEOUT: 9am

If Im going to establish what DIDNT happen that Sunday, eliminating the chief
suspect in Cheris murder might be a good place to start.

Bob Barnett is the stuff of legendspecifically, URBAN legend.

If you made a pie chart of the alleged evidence against Barnett, the various
sections of the pie might read Unsubstantiated Stories, Jailhouse Snitch
Testimony, Things That Couldnt Possibly Have Happened, Witness Accounts That
Do Not Specifically Identify Barnett, Things That Are Patently Untrue,
Attributes Cheris Killer Shares With Barnett and Thousands of Others, etc..

Pie segments one could actually swallow?

Im still chewing on that one. Bob Barnett was a suspect because Riverside PD
needed a suspect, and theyd already eliminated everyone. So they went back and
took a fresh look at a non-suspect, with a little help from his friends.

Captain Roy Conway of Vallejo PD told me, in 1991 or 1992, that he couldnt
take my theory seriously because I believed the Zodiac killed Cheri Bates, and
Captain Conway knew Cheri Bates was killed by a local suspect. He couldnt tell
me why he believed this, but he did say that if I knew what he knew, Id agree
with him.

Thanks to Tom Voigt, I have since been able to look at Riverside PDs
circumstantial case against Bob Barnett. I will comment on each aspect of this
list in the order it was presented to me.

1. Initially cleared of suspicion, Barnett became a prime suspect about 1968
when Riverside PD heard testimony of an informant who claimed Barnett had
bragged about being responsible for the killing. This informant was in jail
when he came forward with the incriminating information about Barnett, but
passed a polygraph test. His story has remained consistent.

The single most important phrase in that paragraph is the first four words,
Initially cleared of suspicion. What this means, in the context of the Bates
investigation, is that Bob Barnett did NOT have scratches on his face and
person in the immediate aftermath of the murder, that his scalp was not bloody,
and that he was not otherwise marked in a manner that might suggest he had
grappled with Cheri Bates. It also means that his fingerprints did not match
what was left on and in Cheri Batess VW.

I want the reader to think about that for a moment.

For three decades, the chief suspect in the Cheri Bates murder was someone who
had already been excluded by forensic evidence taken from the crime scene.

Therefore, Bob Barnett could not possibly have murdered Cheri Bates . . .
unless you assume that more than one person was involved. If Barnett wasnt
scratched-up and his fingerprints didnt match the latents left at Cheris VW,
then he essentially stood by and let his accomplice do the dirty work for him.
His accomplice pulled the wire from the engine and left his greasy prints, his
accomplice got scratched-up in the struggle with the victim, and, as we found
out when the mitochondrial DNA stuck to Cheri Batess palm in blood was
compared with Bob Barnetts, his accomplice got his hair pulled out.

In the entire history of homicides, the Cheri Bates case is unique; a crime of
rage in which the enraged person sits out the murder with his arms folded.

Barnett became a prime suspect about 1968

Sorry, thats wrong. Riverside PD didnt have prime suspect earlier than
October 1969. Read Chief Kinkeads letter (October 20, 1969) to the Napa
Sheriffs Office, which was a follow-up to a phone conversation (October 17,
1969):

Riverside/Napa Memo

If Riverside PD honestly believed Bob Barnett or any other local suspect was
the killer, they would have mentioned that suspect, at least in passing, in the
letter. Instead, the chief points out the numerous similarities between the
Riverside murder and that at Lake Berryessa, and pushed for a comparison of the
latents from the Bates and Stine murders.

This informant was in jail when he came forward with the incriminating
information about Barnett, but passed a polygraph test. His story has remained
consistent.

Polygraph exams arent admissible in court. Jailhouse snitches are notoriously
unreliable. Hearsay accounts featuring a single witness tend to be consistent,
since only the accused himself can contradict them.

2. Like Cheri, Barnett was a student at RCC during the fall of 1966. In fact,
Barnett and Cheri dated in the weeks before her death. Barnett had also
attended school with Cheri prior to RCC. Barnett was mentioned several times in
Chers diary. (The diary is still in police custody.)

Bob Barnett was in Cheri Batess class at Ramona High School and also attended
RCC. In a 2003 statement to Tom Voigt, Barnett insisted that he NEVER dated
Cheri, and in fact dated Cheris friend and co-worker at Riverside National
Bank, Donna. Since Barnett was the boy friend of one of Cheris best friends,
one of two women Cheri talked to on the phone on the last afternoon of her
life, it seems natural that he would be mentioned at some point in Cheris
diary. Riverside PD hasnt exactly been forthcoming about the contents of
Cheris diary, which tends to make me think what was written there doesnt back
up their version of the relationship. Granted, the contents of someones diary,
in relation to the guilt or innocence of a suspect, would be hearsay testimony,
but so is the rest of Riverside PDs case against Barnett.

3. The relationship between Barnett and Cheri soured after Cheri returned from
San Francisco, where she had visited her steady boyfriend. Cheri informed
Barnett that she had accepted this boyfriens wedding proposal and that she
and Barnett could no longer date. (This conversation with Barnett occurred less
than a week before her murder.)

Dennis Highland wasnt Cheris steady boyfriend; hed been her fianc? for two
years. Cheris trip to San Francisco coincided with that of his parents; I
dont know that they traveled together, but its clear that the four of them
intended to be together that weekend. Cheri could not possibly have informed
Barnett that she had accepted Highlands proposal that weekend, since she had
visited Highland in San Francisco that weekend WITH his parents. Barnett could
not have been dating Cheri Bates since he was dating Cheris girl friend,
Donna, and women are notoriously possessive about the guys theyre dating, even
among friends.

Let me just interject at this point, that if Riverside PDs version of these
events sounds completely ludicrous, thats because it is.

4. Barnett and Cheri engaged in a very public argument on the RCC campus just
days before her murder. During the argument, Barnett allegedly slapped Cheri. A
passerby heard Barnett say,Have you changed your mind yet?

I mentioned The Urban Legend of Bob Barnett earlier; you wonder where stories
like this come from. Barnett has denied having any argument in public and has
denied slapping anyone. Nothing in the original reporting of the crime mentions
this incident or anything similar to it. If students at Riverside City College
had witnessed a very public argument between Cheri Bates and Bob Barnett, and
witnessed Barnett slapping her, and then, just days later, Bates was murdered .
. . wouldnt RCC have expelled him? The murder was the most notorious in the
history of Riverside, let alone RCC. If there was anything at all to the story,
wouldnt RCC have held some sort of hearing and been proactive about punishing
Barnett? By all accounts, Cheri Bates was one of the most popular students at
RCC; if she had been struck in public, wouldnt there have been an outcry to
deal with her assailant? And if that hadnt happened immediately, for whatever
reason, wouldnt there have been one days later, in the wake of her murder?

5. The evening Cheri was killed, Barnett was playing basketball with his
buddies. Cheri called him for reasons unknown and Barnett immediately left the
game, saying,That bitch is going to the library.

If Barnett was playing basketball, how could Cheri have called him? I was 15
years old in 1966, and take my word for it, we didnt have cell phones. Did he
have a basketball court inside his house? I remember Chicago Bulls superstar
Scottie Pippen being interviewed from the court which had been added onto his
mansion, but somehow I doubt Bob Barnett had a similar set-up.

Cheri could not logically have called Barnett after 6:15pm, since no one had
reported seeing or otherwise hearing from Cheri after she was sighted driving
up the alley by the March Air Force Base man a block from RCC at 6:15pm. If
Cheri had called Barnett after that time, Riverside PD would have been all over
that call. But no such call is mentioned in any of the news accounts after the
murder.

Cheri Bates and Bob Barnett werent romantically involved. Bob Barnett says it,
Dennis Highland has said it, and no one other than Riverside PD has suggested
it. The only logical reason I can think of for Cheri Bates to call Bob Barnett
that afternoon would have been in connection with looking for her missing term
paper bibliography. At approximately 5:30pm that afternoon, Cheri Bates called
her friend and co-worker at Riverside National Bank, Donna, and asked if shed
seen the bibliography laying around anywhere. Donna said she hadnt. Its
conceivable, though barely, that Donna brought up the possibility that Barnett
had seen the bibliography, since Barnett was Donnas boy friend and presumably
spent lots of time in her company. Cheri would ordinarily not have known
Barnetts phone number, but Donna could have given it to her under those
circumstances. Cheri might then have called Barnett to ask if hed seen the
bibliography; again, keep in mind that Barnett told Tom Voigt there was no ill
will between Cheri and himself.

Again, I dont see how Cheri could have called Barnett if he was already
playing basketball at an outside court or gymnasium. If Cheri called Barnett at
his house just prior to his leaving to play basketball with his buddies, he
might have been very exasperated at the request, and said something along the
lines of his quote above, something he wouldnt actually say to her face. Men
say things like that when they dont want to look like a wimp for doing a girl
friends friend a small favor.

Again, my point is, melodramatic as it sounds, the incident at, or more likely
prior to, the basketball game, may have been entirely innocent and not nearly
as menacing as it sounds. The only difficulty I see with the timeline is that
Cheri Bates almost certainly called Donna from a pay phone outside the library
at 5:30pm, which means she was already AT the library when she called, but
Barnett wouldnt have known that. Its also possible she called Barnett from
her house circa 6pm or so, after not being able to find the bibliography back
at her house, and told him shed be at The RCC Library that evening if he
managed to find it.

This sidebar is a bit convoluted, perhaps, but it demonstrates how critical it
is to place events in a timeline.

CONTEXT IS EVERYTHING.

6. At about 9:30 clock the night of the murder, a female student passed a man
standing in the alley where Cheri would be attacked just minutes later.
Although they didt know each other, the female student and unknown male said
h to each other. The stranger was standing in the shadows. It was later
determined that from his vantage point he could have easily watched Chers VW
Bug while she was in the library. Several years later, RPD showed the female
student a photo lineup which contained Barnets picture. Although she could
not identify anyone in the lineup, she initially had described clothing on the
unknown male that matched what Barnett was wearing the night of the murder.

9:30pm is a full half-hour AFTER the library closed. If The Confession Letter
is to be believed, Cheris killer waited INSIDE the library and then followed
her out after about two minutes. So how could he have been standing in the
alley at 9:30pm? And if Barnett was standing in the alley at 9:30pm, he
couldnt have been with Cheri Bates at her car, trying to get it to start.

7. At about 1:30am on Oct. 31, only hours after Cheri was murdered, neighbors
witnessed TWO men in the area of the crime scene with flashlights. The men
appeared to be searching for something. After about 15 minutes, they left. This
info led police to believe Barnett had an accomplice.

Just to remind the reader, Bob Barnett is the prime suspect in the Cheri Bates
murder who was not scratched-up or otherwise marked when he was initially
interviewed, hadnt had his hair pulled out, and whose fingerprints did not
match those left at the victims car. None of the forensic evidence pointed to
him, he had no apparent motive, and he was not positively identified by the
only eyewitness in the area an hour prior to the attack.

But, since two men were seen in the general area of the crime scene at 1:30am
that morning, wielding flashlights, this leads Riverside PD to the conclusion
that Bob Barnett had an accomplice.

In police procedural terms, thats called Getting Two For The Price of NONE!

8. Barnets best friend failed a polygraph test. (Barnett later took a
polygraph test on the advice of his lawyer. He cooperated at first, but when
the tough questions were asked he simply refused to answer. The polygraph
examiner finally said,Get him the #*@ out of here)

I hate to keep beating this dead horse, but polygraph exams are not admissible
in a court of law. Riverside PDs circumstantial case against Bob Barnett
consists almost entirely of hearsay testimony from extremely unreliable
witnesses, backed up by an assortment of polygraph results that prove
absolutely nothing.

9. In spite of promising circumstances, the case against Bob Barnett was at an
impasse.

Now THERES a news flash!

10. In the early 1990s, Barnets former best friend finally admitted that he
HAD seen Barnett the morning of October 31, 1966. He hadaccidentall run
into Barnett about 2:30am at a restaurant calledThe Green Turtl. Barnett
asked him for a ride to RCC in order to look for something he had misplaced.

The suggestion here is that Bob Barnett had murdered Cheri Bates and then
noticed, sometime later that night, that his Timex watch was missing. Again,
none of this makes any sense at all. The neighbors who said they saw two men
with flashlights in the area saw them circa 1:30am, not after 2:30am. If
Barnett had been searching for his Timex at 1:30am, why would he need a ride to
RCC an hour later? And how could two men spend 15 minutes at the crime scene
with flashlights and NOT find the Timex, which was ten feet from the body, a
black-banded watch laying on bright white gravel? We know they didnt find it
because the police did that morning. The watch face was also speckled with
white latex paint. Riverside PD would certainly have checked Barnett out for
any painting activity in the days prior to the murder.

11. To police, Barnets friend would not admit that he had any knowledge that
a crime had occurred. He eventually took a polygraph test, which indicated he
was truthful EXCEPT regarding questions that might implicate HIMSELF in Chers
murder. Another friend of Barnets came forward and admitted that a sobbing
Barnett had claimed, early on the morning of Oct. 31, 1966, that he had
snuffed Cher. This friend also passed a polygraph.

Barnetts friends all sound like characters from a Martin Scorsese movie,
except for their willingness to cooperate with law enforcement. I suppose its
possible that Barnett was genuinely upset that morning to hear about Cheri
Batess death, and that his friend mistook his sorrow for remorse. In any case,
nothing ties Barnett to the crime scene.

Hearsay + Polygraph ` The Truth

12. Although Barnett had no military affiliation, his sister worked at Norton
Air Force Base at the time of the Bates murder. That could explain the origin
of the military shoeprints and Timex watch found at the scene. While the watch
was determined to have been initially sold at a military installation, exactly
WHICH installation remains a mystery. (Barnets sister is not suspected of
being an accomplice. The assumption is that she might have given the shoes and
watch to Barnett as a gift. Barnets family members did admit he had a watch
similar to the one recovered at the crime scene and that they never saw it
again after Bates was killed.)

This is about as vague as an investigative link gets. Police may have had shoe
prints, but they didnt have shoes. In any case, both the shoes and the Timex
watch were common items. If a vendor bought lots of surplus military items and
resold them, theres your link. The proximity of March Air Force Base led
police to suspect a military man may have committed the murder, just as they
suspected fellow RCC students.

13. When Chers body was found, two or three strands of hair were recovered
from a clot of blood and tissue in the palm of her hand. At the time, the
technology would only show that the hair, blood, and tissue were that of a
white male with sandy-blond hair. Barnett is a white male and, at the time, had
sandy-blond hair. (Tissue was also recovered from under Chers fingernails,
but was too decomposed to gather DNA from by the time it was attempted in the
early 1990s.)

Police initially eliminated Barnett because his face wasnt marked and his
fingerprints didnt match the latents. He also wasnt identified by any
witness, and had no motive until Riverside PD manufactured one for him.

14. In December 1998, information was developed that Barnett was returning to
the Riverside area for Christmas. RPD managed to get a warrant and met Barnett
upon his arrival at Ontario Airport. RPD took skin, saliva, hair and other
samples from Barnett, which were then sent for DNA analysis to the FBI
Laboratory in Quantico, Va. Barnett was described as having displayed a
passive,What took you so long type of attitude with detectives, sending
their suspicions of his guilt soaring even higher. UPDATE: The DNA results were
a conclusive non-match.

The reader may well be asking the obvious question:

Why would Riverside PD have spend the better part of three decades pursuing a
suspect who had already been eliminated in the immediate aftermath of the
murder, and whose circumstantial case against him was so weak?

The answer goes back to that Kinkead memo of October 20, 1969.

Riverside/Napa Memo

When the FBI lab checked the Riverside latents against what the Zodiac killer
left on Paul Stines cab in Presidio Heights, it concluded they were two
different sets of prints, from two separate suspects.

Here is Riverside PD Detective Steve Shumway in 2004, speaking once again with
Tom Voigt of ZodiacKiller.com:

"There are two things for sure you can share with your many readers: There was
a murderer who called himself the Zodiac, and there was the murderer who killed
Cheri. They are two different people."

Well, with all due respect, Detective Shumway, thats a conclusion not
supported by the evidence. What you actually mean to say is:

The latents left in Presidio Heights by the Zodiac killer, and the latents
left at Cheri Bates VW, presumably by her killer . . . ARE TWO DIFFERENT SETS
OF PRINTS.

Note that this is consistent with the actions of Riverside PD. Almost
immediately after the Kinkead letter to Napa, which suggested the comparison of
the latents on file at the FBI, Riverside PD did an abrupt about-face, dropped
its interest in any Zodiac link, and began pursuing Bob Barnett as a suspect.

If Cheri Bates was killed by one person, that eliminates the Zodiac. But, as
Ive already noted, Cheri Batess autopsy suggests strongly that she was killed
by TWO people. So if the Zodiac killed Cheri Bates . . . the Zodiac is at least
two people.

The one thing for sure I can share with my many readers, especially the Zodiac
website administrators and Zodiac message board posters who keep bringing his
name up as if he had ever been a viable suspect:

Bob Barnett was NOT involved in any way with the Cheri Bates homicide.

After 45+ years . . . GET OVER IT!
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]













**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** String Theory ******
Dave Oranchak replied to my article. Ordinarily I copy-and-paste the post Im
replying to, interspersed with my own comments. In this case, Im going to
copy-and-paste Daves entire message first, since I think his argument deserves
to stand on its own, and then reply to it.

Convert a document the size of The Confession Letter to Morse code, and then
check it for the strings I found in The Confession Letter, using the SEARCH
function of your computer. Its a fairly simple exercise for someone of your
expertise. The strings are cited at TZMS 1993-1, pages 118-125. Let me tell you
what youre going to discover for yourself. Youll type in a given string, hit
the SEARCH button . . . and nothing. Over and over and over again.

That's not what I found at all. Out of curiosity, I ran some experiments, and
found the following problems with your approach:

1) Converting text to morse code, and streaming the zeroes and ones together,
allows for the discovery of a vast number of words within a single document.
2) With such a large pool of words to select from, it is easy to discover words
that fit some pre-determined narrative
3) Therefore, we have to take on faith that you've selected only the words that
are truly planted there by the author of the letters.

First, let's look at the confession letter. I used this transcription of the
letter: http://code.google.com/p/zodiac-killer-ciphers/source/browse/trunk/
letters/1966-11-29-the-confession.txt

Here is what it looks like when I converted it to digitized Morse: http://
zodiackillerciphers.com/ray-grant/confession-letter-to-morse.txt

I ran a word search algorithm on the digitized Morse. It scans a large
dictionary file and looks for each word. Any word that is already in the
original plain text is ignored.

The algorithm found around 76,000 words: http://zodiackillerciphers.com/ray-
grant/confession-letter-founds-words.txt The format of this file is: Word
length, word, word-to-morse, and location in file.

To demonstrate the ease at which words are found using the morse code scheme,
let's look at the article you posted in response to my email. The confession
letter is 1625 characters long if you remove all of the non-alphabet stuff. So,
I created a version of your article that is also 1625 characters long: http://
zodiackillerciphers.com/ray-grant/ray-article.txt

Here it is converted to Morse: http://zodiackillerciphers.com/ray-grant/ray-
article-to-morse.txt

When I ran the word search algorithm on it, it found around 73,000 words: http:
//zodiackillerciphers.com/ray-grant/ray-article-found-words.txt

If you look at both lists, you'll find that over 11,000 words can be found in
both digitizations. Here are those words: http://zodiackillerciphers.com/ray-
grant/words-found-in-both.txt You can easily see interesting words in there
such as Saturn, Mars, earth, druid, death, snare, sneak, dante, eight, eleven,
zeus, witch, etc.

It's clear to me that the appearance of any words using this scheme is the
result of pure chance.

What do you think of these problems?
Regards,
-Dave

In 1970, I took an American History course at Pitt from Professor Ronald Tobey.
Although he gave me an A, Dr. Tobey told me I had an annoying habit of ignoring
the essay questions he asked and, instead, giving very meticulous answers to
questions that were superficially similar to but not the same as the ones hed
actually asked.

Heres the passage from my article that you quoted:

Convert a document the size of The Confession Letter to Morse code, and then
check it for the strings I found in The Confession Letter, using the SEARCH
function of your computer. Its a fairly simple exercise for someone of your
expertise. The strings are cited at TZMS 1993-1, pages 118-125. Let me tell you
what youre going to discover for yourself. Youll type in a given string, hit
the SEARCH button . . . and nothing. Over and over and over again.

1, You DID convert a document the size of The Confession Letter to Morse code.
Thank you for getting that far with my instructions. I think thats the record
for a ZKF poster.

However, you did NOT

2, then check it for THE STRINGS I FOUND in The Confession Letter . . . The
strings are cited at TZMS 1993-1, pages 118-125.

Since you did not follow my instructions to the letter, the whole point of the
exercise was lost on you. I will, however, do what Professor Tobey did with me,
and comment on the unasked question that you did choose to answer:

Out of curiosity, I ran some experiments, and found the following problems with
your approach:

1) Converting text to morse code, and streaming the zeroes and ones together,
allows for the discovery of a vast number of words within a single document.

Morse needs to be capitalized because its someones name. I dont recall
suggesting that only a small number of words was available when you convert a
document to Morse code and then streamed the zeroes and ones together. Maybe I
implied it unintentionally?

2) With such a large pool of words to select from, it is easy to discover words
that fit some pre-determined narrative

Then its your job to demonstrate something along those lines, particularly if
its easy.

Its exasperating to have to keep saying this, but, in cryptography, CONTEXT IS
EVERYTHING.

Thus, someone who chose to do what youre suggesting COULD NOT simply select
words to fit a pre-determined narrative, because his interpretation would still
have to be consistent on some level with the Zodiac literature and crimes. To
cite two examples of this sort of thing, both Robert Graysmith and Corey
Starliper proposed solutions to The 340 that are similar in tone and language
to the Zodiac letters. I dont agree with their methodology, and Im sure you
dont, either, but its telling that they made sure their solutions read like
Zodiac text.

3) Therefore, we have to take on faith that you've selected only the words that
are truly planted there by the author of the letters.

This statement illustrates a basic fallacy about cryptography in the real
world, which is that messages in the field are never subject to interpretation.
As Ive pointed out in numerous places, including answering posts on ZKF  (Curt
Rowlett section),
the American high command was barely convinced that JN-25 predicted an invasion
of Midway Island in 1942. As William Manchester pointed out in The Glory And
The Dream, The Purple Code predicted the attack on Pearl Harbor, and the
Americans didnt fail to act because of any conspiracy but because they didnt
take seriously what their own cryptographers were telling them.

It's clear to me that the appearance of any words using this scheme is the
result of pure chance.

I dont think this is QUITE as clear as you think it is, Dave. Lets take a
look at your examples.

You can easily see interesting words in there such as Saturn, Mars, earth,
druid, death, snare, sneak, dante, eight, eleven, zeus, witch, etc.

SATURN is a 14-digit string (Morse code/binary digits), MARS is 10 digits,
EARTH is 11 digits, DRUID is 14, DEATH is 11, DANTE is 11, EIGHT is 11, ELEVEN
is 13, WITCH is 14.

A 14-digit string will show up once every 16,384 chances. Your example cites
TWO instances of hits within documents of 1625 digits. 14 digits, which is the
longest of the interesting strings you cite, should show up in ONE of those
documents, purely by chance, about 1 out of every 10 times. If you have TWO
such instances, now youre talking about 1 out of 100. That sort of, kind of,
approximates what Ray Grant is talking about, in a matter of speaking,
exceptand keep in mind, Im not a statistician any more than I am a
cryptographerIm guessing that 1 out of 100 is well within the scatterplot for
this type of data.

Here, offered merely for contrast, is a list of terms I cite in TZMS 1993, just
from scanning the physical copy in my lap:

The Confession Letter
ATLAS FIRE (22) 4194304 THREE FATES (21) 2097152 OBELISK (20) 1048576

The Cryptogram
DANTS ANTAEUS (26) 67,108,864, THREE FATES (21) 2097152

DANTES ANTAEUS, which was cited by Gareth Penn in Times 17, should appear once
every 67,108,864 digits. Since there are roughly 40,000 digits in the entire
Zodiac literature, that means we should see that string once in 1677 Zodiacs.

Getting TWO instances of THREE FATES would require 2778 Zodiacs. Imagine that
many Zodiacs running around, Dave. Its frightening.

The word ROGATION appears in the VTH cover letter (7/31/69) and in both April
1970 letters. The Major Rogation was on April 25th, which those two letters
(April 20th and 28th) flank. ROGATION is a 19-digit string which should appear
once in 20 Zodiac literatures; it appears 3 times.

I already mentioned ALIGHIERI, which appears in The Mikado Letter twice.

To me, the most striking example of textual tampering can be found in The
Confession Letter.

Ive mentioned Dants Inferno numerous times, as did Gareth Penn. As Ive
said, and as Gareth failed to point out, The Desk Poems first four lines are a
paraphrase of the initial quatrain from The Inferno.

The most cryptographic utterance in Dants Inferno is the brief speech of
Nimrod from Canto 31, Line 67:

RAPHEL MAI AMECCHE ZABI ALMI

In a sense, Nimrods speech is symbolic of the Zodiacs literature, and in
particular his ciphers, since they remain untranslated.

RAPHEL appears twice in The Confession Letter, which itself consists of 4138
Morse digits.

The first instance begins with digit #2212. Oddly enough, 2212 is a backward
form of the Timex watch time in Riverside12:22.

But the single most striking placement can be found in the covertext character
numbers for RAPHEL #2:

MAKING HER PAY FOR THE BRUSHOFFS

      K      I    N  G      H   E   R    P
      101 00 10 110 0000 0 010 0110

        010010110000000100

        010 01 0110 0000 0 0100
          R    A    P      H    E    L

This placement is so remarkable that Im going to number my points to highlight
it:

1,RAPHE is the first thing out of Nimros mouth;
2, It is not the first thing we know about hihs buried in the soil of the
9th Circle & chained;
3, The Confession Letter is not the first thing we know about the Zodiathe
Bates murder is;
4, But The Confession Letter IS the first thing he SAYS;
5, In other words, RAPHEL and The Confession Letter are figuratively synonyms;
6, The Confession Letter was postmarked November 11-2;
7, The of MAKING is the start of the covertext for the beginning of RAPHEL
in the undertext;
8, The of MAKING is character #1129 of The Confession Letter.

All of this can be found on page 334 of TZMS 1993-2.

The no context approach of Dave Oranchak might make sense if the Zodiac had
only sent conventional messages to the newspapers. But he also sent ciphers,
three of which remain untranslated, his other communications contain cryptic
passages, and even his crimes featured odd notes that seemed to have some
secret meaning. Why is it so hard to believe that his letters contained
undertexts?

Check out The Voynich Manuscript:

See, if I were going to try to dope out The Voynich Manuscript, this is just my
take on it, Id probably try a brute force computer attack before I did any
research on the history or background (why bother doing any of that?).

Speaking of people feeling the need to "bash" other people, remember how ZKF
used to bash OPORD?

And now ZKF is OPORD Lite . . .
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]













**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Terminology ******
Lets begin our reconstruction of the Zodiac murders by defining our terms.

Those who DVR TV series will have noted that specific episodes are now given a
number indicating which season of the series it belongs to and which episode of
that season it was. For instance, the most recent episode of the Person of
Interest series was entitled No Good Deed, and designated S01/Ep22 (Season 1,
Episode 22).

To take advantage of peoples familiarity with this system, Im going to adopt
a similar terminology here on Zodiac Killer Timeline. Each individual incident
will be given a name (e. g., St. Catherines Church, Sandys Restaurant)
and a number. The number will be preceded by a 2- or 3-letter code identifying
the Zodiac event (murder, letter, or other encounter) it belongs to, often the
venue associated with it. Since the individual incidents will be analyzed here
in extraordinary depth, I will attempt to simplify the overall structure to
compensate for the detail below.

Riverside (RIV)
Lake Herman Road (LHR)
Blue Rock Springs (BRS)
Cryptogram (CRP)
Lake Berryessa (LB)
Presidio Heights (PH)

. . . and so forth. St. Catherines Church would thus be RIV01, Sandys
Restaurant would be RIV02, et cetera.
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]













**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Voice Box ******
Those of you who watch my videos know that I have spasmodic dysphonia, a
neurological disorder where the muscles around my vocal folds clench
involuntarily. Every couple of months I get a double injection of botox, one on
each side of my throat, which relaxes the muscles temporarily and allows me to
have a relatively normal voice.

I went for the injections on Monday afternoon, and took the opportunity to ask
my doctor about Cheri Batess voice box. The first thing the doctor told me was
that it is virtually impossible to decapitate anyone with a knife. The bones of
the spine are sturdy enough that youd need an axe or a guillotine to cut
completely through the neck. However, since the larynx itself is located in the
front of the throat, and since the victim's thyroid cartilage is described as
deeply cut on each side, it seems reasonable to assume that the voice box was
compromised.

Neck Organs:
The thyroid cartilage is obliquely cut on each side. Each cut is about 3 cm
leng and angle from lateral above to medially below forming a somewhat Y shape
structure with the apex at about the mid portion of the thyroid cartilage
anteriorly. The upper edges are cut much deeper than the interior portions. The
medial edges of the upper portions of the right and left lobes of the thyroid
are partially incised. The right and left superficial jugular veins are
completely transected. The right common carotid artery is completely transected
about 2 cm above its origin.

Having said all this, the medical examiner wonders, in his summary, why the
victim didnt run for help.

As the result of the rapid blood loss the subject would go late shock rapidly
and undoubtedly would become unconscious and die in several minutes. The time
interval of minutes might make me wonder why she wouldt scream and run for
help, however, it is very likely that the suddenness and fear caused by the
attack caused her to be faint, hence, allowing no time for many long and loud
calls for help. The syncope would then blend late the unconsciousness from
blood loss and on into death.

I'm wondering, having looked at this passage several times in recent weeks, if
I haven't misread what the medical examiner was trying to say here.  If you
read that paragraph carefully, the autopsy surgeon appears to be asking why the
victim wouldn't scream and run AFTER her throat was cut.

But I'm not sure that's what he's saying after all.

I think what Dr. Modglin means is, WHY WOULD THE VICTIM JUST STAND THERE AND
ALLOW HER THROAT TO BE CUT BY A SINGLE ASSAILANT, WHEN THERE WERE NO OTHER
DISABLING WOUNDS ANYWHERE ON HER BODY?

My doctor agrees with me, and disagrees with what the medical examiner seems to
be saying here. If her carotid artery and jugular veins were transected, she
would likely lose consciousness very quickly and die within minutes, and
therefore could not have run away once her throat was cut.

But, oddly enough, that's what the medical examiner DOES say at first:

As the result of the rapid blood loss the subject would go late shock rapidly
and undoubtedly would become unconscious and die in several minutes.

If your throat is cut, you pass out in a matter of seconds and die within
minutes.

So what the medical examiner is actually saying is, WHY DIDN'T SHE RUN WHEN SHE
HAD THE CHANCE?

My doctor told me that had the victims larynx been cut through, she could not
have screamed.

And yet, a witness in the area reported hearing "an awful scream" circa 10:
30pm.

So we know Cheri Bates probably screamed before she was murdered.

If she had time to scream, she had time to get away.

But that's assuming there was only one killer.

The lacerations are typical of knife cuts and the minimum instrument dimensions
for a knife blade would be ? inch wide and 3 ? inches long. There were notell
tal marks to indicate it had been plunged inup to the hil. The position
(s) of the assailant is/are notproof positiv from the study of the body.

Heres something else to think about. The medical examiner stated that the
knife used was at least 3 ? inches long and a half inch wide. That means that
the knife blade was 7 times longer than it was wide.

If the knife blade is 7 times longer than it is wide, what sort of wound
pattern would we expect, assuming the murder is a crime of passion?

We would expect, for the most part, relatively short marks on the surface of
the skin, and deep cuts.

The autopsy reveals that the majority of the wounds on the body were
superficial. The surface lacerations were actually longer than the wounds were
deep, with the exception of the neck area. This is consistent with a slashing
attack, and is completely inconsistent with a stabbing.

To take this a step further, the autopsy suggests that the killers intent was
to slash the victims throat, since that is where the deep lacerations are. All
the oher wounds are superficial, defensive, and presumably collateral.

Cheri Batess killer could not have acted out of rage, because an enraged
killer would have stabbed the victim, particularly if he were making a frontal
attack. If the killer had somehow gotten behind the victim, it would have been
much more difficult for the victim to yank his watch off and pull his hair out.
And, while the petechial hemorrhaging is consistent with some sort of headlock
maneuver, one would expect the victims neck to be heavily bruised if she had
been choked to the point where the subcutaneous skin of the forehead showed
hemorrhaging; the medical examiner does not note any such bruising.

The medical examiner raises the possibility that Cheri Bates fainted out of
fear of the sudden attack, but that scenario is ruled out by the rather
dramatic evidence of a struggle.  And if she fainted, she probably didn't come
to in time to scream.

If Cheri Bates was assaulted by a single killer, one has to wonder why she
wasnt stabbed, and why she didnt run away, since the absence of bruising on
her neck and arms tells us her killer didnt hold her with one hand and slash
with the other.

The Cheri Bates homicide more closely resembles a cold-blooded execution than
it does a hot-blooded messy murder. It was quick, efficient, and likely
involved two assailants, one in front and one behind. The man in front held a
gun on her, the second man stepped in behind her and immediately began slashing
her throat as the first man ducked and wrapped his arms around her to keep her
from struggling or fleeing. The hemorrhaging to the forehead was caused by the
intense struggle. Once she was subdued, they lowered her to the ground and
dropped the watch a few feet away. One of them, most likely the one in front,
was scratched and had tufts of hair pulled out. Its conceivable that, since a
young man with a beard was seen inside the library and then did not return for
the reenactment, that the hairs stuck to Cheris palm in blood were actually
from his beard rather than the top of his head.

The murder could not have happened the way The Confession Letter says it did.
Cheri Bates was not choked and could not have been, since the medical examiner
noted no hemorrhaging in the eyes and her throat was not bruised. She was not
stabbed, and no broken blade was found either inside her body or on the ground.

Its fair to say that the Cheri Bates case is the most misunderstood murder in
the history of homicides, and most of the misunderstanding stems from the
public acceptance of the account given in The Confession Letter.

Its amazing, isnt it?

Zodiac hobbyists arent sure The Confession Letter was written by her killer.

They arent sure The Confession Letter was written by the Zodiac.

They arent sure the victim was killed by the Zodiac.

But they are ABSOLUTELY SURE of one thing: The Confession Letter is 100%
accurate.

That version is in conflict with the eyewitness accounts, with what the
victims friends and fiance have said about her, with what the victims stomach
contents tell us, with what the victims injuries tell us, and with what the
crime scene tells us.

It's the one thing about the Zodiac case I'll admit I don't understand.

Maybe I should ask ZKF?

Here are some ZKF posters holding forth on this otherwise inexplicable
phenomenon:

if the facts don't mesh with theory, simply ignore them altogether. Brilliant.
Aquiman

An inability to be honest with oneself - which logically conflicts with such
things as facts and truth.
Traveller1st

Proud to have been thoroughly DE-BUNKED by this site.
LIVE55

it was crystal clear that he has absolutely no clue what he's talking about.
Ed Neil

Whatever happened to ZKF anyway?  Outside of Dave Oranchak doing his Gareth
Penn impression, it's dead as a doornail.

Oh well.  I will be posting further insights on the case shortly.

ZKF, not so much.
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]














**** Main Navigation ****
    * Home Page
    * Inception
    * Enough About Me
    * Terminology
    * Riverside
    * Riverside Revisited
    * Bates Autopsy
    * Autopsy Confession
    * Butterfield PDF
    * Horan Timeline
    * Riverside Timeline A
    * Horan Revisited
    * Mostly Morf
    * Voice Box
    * Dave Oranchak
    * String Theory
Zodiac Killer Timeline
****** Home Page ******
Hi! And welcome to ZodiacKillerTimeline.com!

My name is Ray Grant. But enough about me.

This is a website about the Zodiac murders.

For all intents and purposes, its the ONLY website about the Zodiac murders.

If you've visited someone else's WEBSITE, or read someone else's BOOK, or seen
someone elses MOVIE, or listened to someone elses RADIO INTERVIEW, or watched
someone else's TV SHOW . . . youve only had the raw, unprocessed facts of the
case recited to you.

And the worst part is, many of those raw facts turn out to be wrong.

Speaking of cases . . . if you went to a doctor for over a decade and he
limited himself to repeating your symptoms back to you, and things obviously
werent getting any better . . . would you keep going to him?

So many self-appointed Zodiac doctors . . . and never even a hint of a
diagnosis.

Sounds like malpractice to me!

This website doesnt deliver embryonic material. For me to do that would be a
miscarriage of justice and logic and a dereliction of my duty.  First, Do No
Harm is a good oath for real doctors to take; Try To Do Some Good is a better
oath for investigators.

This is a website that processes information and develops ideas. It may take
longer, and involve some labor, but in the end well have a Zodiac Killer
Timeline that will stand by itself and, I hope, live on.



Inception
Content copyright
. ZODIACKILLERTIMELINE.COM. All rights reserved.
[Web Hosting]